Part 1.1  Preliminary

Part 1.1  Preliminary
Section 4

Part 1.1  Preliminary
2 Corporations Act 2001

Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025(a) the legislative powers that the Commonwealth Parliament 
has under section 122 of the Constitution to make laws for 
the government of those Territories; and
(b) the legislative powers that the Commonwealth Parliament 
has under section 51 of the Constitution.
Despite section 2H of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901, this Act as 
applying in those Territories is a law of the Commonwealth.
(3) The operation of this Act outside Australia is based on:
(a) the legislative power the Commonwealth Parliament has 
under paragraph 51(xxix) of the Constitution; and
(b) the other legislative powers that the Commonwealth 
Parliament has under section 51 of the Constitution; and
(c) the legislative powers that the Commonwealth Parliament 
has under section 122 of the Constitution to make laws for 
the government of the external Territories.
(4) The operation of this Act in a State that is not a referring State is 
based on:
(a) the legislative powers that the Commonwealth Parliament 
has under section 51 (other than paragraph 51(xxxvii)) and 
section 122 of the Constitution; and
(b) the legislative powers that the Commonwealth Parliament 
has in respect of matters to which this Act relates because 
those matters are referred to it by the Parliaments of the 
referring States under paragraph 51(xxxvii) of the 
Constitution.

Part 1.1  Preliminary
4  Referring States

Reference of matters by State Parliament to Commonwealth 
Parliament
(1) A State is a referring State if the Parliament of the State has 
referred the matters covered by subsections (4) and (5) to the 
Parliament of the Commonwealth for the purposes of 
paragraph 51(xxxvii) of the Constitution:
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Introductory  Chapter 1
Preliminary  Part 1.1

Part 1.1  Preliminary
Section 4

Corporations Act 2001 3
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025(a) if and to the extent that the matters are not otherwise 
included in the legislative powers of the Parliament of the 
Commonwealth (otherwise than by a reference under 
paragraph 51(xxxvii) of the Constitution); and
(b) if and to the extent to which the matters are included in the 
legislative powers of the Parliament of the State.
This subsection has effect subject to subsections (6) and (7).
(2) A State is a referring State even if the State reference Act includes 
a provision to the effect that nothing in the State reference Act is 
intended to enable the making of laws pursuant to the amendment 
reference with the sole or main underlying purpose or object of 
regulating industrial relations matters even if, but for that provision 
in the State reference Act, the law would be a law with respect to a 
matter referred to the Parliament of the Commonwealth by the 
amendment reference.
(3) A State is a referring State even if a law of the State provides that 
the reference to the Commonwealth Parliament of either or both of 
the matters covered by subsections (4) and (5) is to terminate in 
particular circumstances.
Reference covering initial Corporations Act and ASIC Act
(4) This subsection covers the matters to which the referred provisions 
relate to the extent of making laws with respect to those matters by 
including the referred provisions in the initial Corporations Act and 
the initial ASIC Act.
Reference covering amendments of this Act and ASIC Act
(5) This subsection covers the matters of the formation of 
corporations, corporate regulation and the regulation of financial 
products and services to the extent of the making of laws with 
respect to those matters by making express amendments of this Act 
or the ASIC Act.
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Chapter 1  Introductory

Part 1.1  Preliminary

Part 1.1  Preliminary
Section 4

Part 1.1  Preliminary
4 Corporations Act 2001

Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025Effect of termination of reference
(6) A State ceases to be a referring State if the State’s initial reference 
terminates.
(7) A State ceases to be a referring State if:
(a) the State’s amendment reference terminates; and
(b) subsection (8) does not apply to the termination.
(8) A State does not cease to be a referring State because of the 
termination of its amendment reference if:
(a) the termination is effected by the Governor of that State 
fixing a day by proclamation as the day on which the 
reference terminates; and
(b) the day fixed is no earlier than the first day after the end of 
the period of 6 months beginning on the day on which the 
proclamation is published; and
(c) that State’s amendment reference, and the amendment 
reference of every other State, terminates on the same day.
Definitions
(9) In this section:
amendment reference of a State means the reference by the 
Parliament of the State to the Parliament of the Commonwealth of 
the matters covered by subsection (5).
express amendment of this Act or the ASIC Act means the direct 
amendment of the text of this Act or the ASIC Act (whether by the 
insertion, omission, repeal, substitution or relocation of words or 
matter) by Commonwealth Acts, but does not include the 
enactment by a Commonwealth Act of a provision that has, or will 
have, substantive effect otherwise than as part of the text of this 
Act or the ASIC Act.
initial ASIC Act means the ASIC Act as originally enacted.
initial Corporations Act means this Act as originally enacted.
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Introductory  Chapter 1
Preliminary  Part 1.1

Part 1.1  Preliminary
Section 5

Corporations Act 2001 5
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025initial reference of a State means the reference by the Parliament 
of the State to the Parliament of the Commonwealth of the matters 
covered by subsection (4).
referred provisions means:
(a) the initial Corporations Act; and
(b) the initial ASIC Act;
to the extent to which they deal with matters that are included in 
the legislative powers of the Parliaments of the States.
State reference Act for a State is the law under which the initial 
reference and the amendment reference are given.

Part 1.1  Preliminary
5  General territorial application of Act

Geographical coverage of “this jurisdiction”
(1) Section 9 defines this jurisdiction as the area that includes:
(a) each referring State (including its coastal sea); and
(b) each Territory (including its coastal sea, if any); and
(d) also, for the purposes of the application of a provision of 
Chapter 7 or an associated provision (see subsection (10))—
any external Territory in which the provision applies because 
of subsection (9) (but only to the extent provided for in that 
subsection).
(2) Throughout this Act, this jurisdiction therefore consists of:
(a) either:
(i) the whole of Australia (if all the States are referring 
States); or
(ii) Australia (other than any State that is not a referring 
State) if one or more States are not referring States; and
(b) also, when used in or in relation to a provision of Chapter 7 
or an associated provision (see subsection (10))—any 
external Territory in which the provision applies because of 
subsection (9) (but only to the extent provided for in that 
subsection).
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Chapter 1  Introductory

Part 1.1  Preliminary

Part 1.1  Preliminary
Section 5

Part 1.1  Preliminary
6 Corporations Act 2001

Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025Operation in this jurisdiction
(3) Each provision of this Act applies in this jurisdiction.
Operation outside this jurisdiction
(4) Subject to subsection (8), each provision of this Act also applies, 
according to its tenor, in relation to acts and omissions outside this 
jurisdiction.
Residence, place of formation etc.
(7) Each provision of this Act applies according to its tenor to:
(a) natural persons whether:
(i) resident in this jurisdiction or not; and
(ii) resident in Australia or not; and
(iii) Australian citizens or not; and
(b) all bodies corporate and unincorporated bodies whether:
(i) formed or carrying on business in this jurisdiction or 
not; and
(ii) formed or carrying on business in Australia or not.
Note: Paragraph (b)—many of the provisions in this Act apply only in 
relation to companies (that is, to companies that are registered under 
this Act).
Operation in non-referring States
(8) This Act does not apply to an act or omission in a State that is not a 
referring State to the extent to which that application would be 
beyond the legislative powers of the Parliament (including powers 
it has under paragraphs 51(xxxvii) and (xxxix) of the Constitution).
Expanded application of provisions of Chapter 7 and associated 
provisions
(9) The regulations may provide that, in specified circumstances, a 
specified external Territory is included in this jurisdiction for the 
purposes of a specified provision of Chapter 7 (the applicable 
provision). If the regulations do so:
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Introductory  Chapter 1
Preliminary  Part 1.1

Part 1.1  Preliminary
Section 5A