Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025would otherwise have been offered to the non-resident; 
and
(ii) advises each non-resident that the nominee will send the 
non-resident any net proceeds from the sale of that 
invitation or those rights; and
(iii) appoints a nominee in Australia to carry out the 
obligations referred to in subparagraphs (i) and (ii).
(3A) For the purposes of subsection (3), offering entity means the 
following:
(a) in relation to an offer of securities in a body that is not a 
registered scheme or a notified foreign passport fund—the 
body;
(b) in relation to an offer of interests in a registered scheme—the 
responsible entity of the scheme;
(c) in relation to an offer of interests in a notified foreign 
passport fund—the operator of the fund.
(4) For the purposes of this section, a reference to an offer of securities 
includes a reference to an invitation to apply for the issue of 
securities.

Part 1.2  Interpretation
Division 1  General
9B  Meaning of remuneration recommendation

(1) A remuneration recommendation is:
(a) a recommendation about either or both of the following:
(i) how much the remuneration should be;
(ii) what elements the remuneration should have;
for one or more members of the key management personnel 
for a company; or
(b) a recommendation or advice about a matter or of a kind 
prescribed by the regulations.
(2) None of the following is a remuneration recommendation (even if 
it would otherwise be covered by subsection (1)):
(a) advice about the operation of the law (including tax law);
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Introductory  Chapter 1
Interpretation  Part 1.2
General  Division 1

Part 1.2  Interpretation
Division 1  General
Section 9D

Corporations Act 2001 151
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025(b) advice about the operation of accounting principles (for 
example, about how options should be valued);
(c) advice about the operation of actuarial principles and 
practice;
(d) the provision of facts;
(e) the provision of information of a general nature relevant to 
all employees of the company;
(f) a recommendation, or advice or information, of a kind 
prescribed by the regulations.
(3) Subsection (2) does not limit the things that are not remuneration 
recommendations, nor does it mean that something specified in that 
subsection would otherwise be a remuneration recommendation 
within the meaning of subsection (1).
(4) ASIC may by writing declare that subsection (1) does not apply to 
a specified recommendation or specified advice, but may do so 
only if ASIC is satisfied that it would be unreasonable in the 
circumstances for the advice or recommendation to be a 
remuneration recommendation. The declaration has effect 
accordingly. The declaration is not a legislative instrument.

Part 1.2  Interpretation
Division 1  General
9D  Meaning of declared financial market

(1) A declared financial market is a financial market declared under 
subsection (2).
(2) ASIC may, by legislative instrument, declare a specified financial 
market for the purposes of subsection (1).
(3) ASIC must not make a declaration under subsection (2) unless the 
Minister has approved it in writing.
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Chapter 1  Introductory