Part 1.2  Interpretation
Division 2 of Part 7.7.

financial services law has the meaning given by section 761A.
financial services licensee means a person who holds an 
Australian financial services licence.
financial statements means annual financial statements under 
section 295 or half-year financial statements under section 303.
financial year:
(a) of a company, registered scheme or disclosing entity (other 
than a notified foreign passport fund)—has the meaning 
given by section 323D; and
(b) of a notified foreign passport fund—has the meaning given 
by section 323DAA; and
(c) of a financial services licensee that is a body corporate and is 
not covered by paragraph (a)—means a financial year of the 
body corporate; and
(d) for a financial services licensee that is not covered by 
paragraph (a) or (c)—means a year ending on 30 June.
find, in the case of a reference to a court finding a person guilty of 
an offence, has a meaning affected by section 73A.
firm, in relation to an administrator, restructuring practitioner or 
liquidator, means:
(a) if the administrator, restructuring practitioner or liquidator is 
a partner or employee of a partnership (the partnership firm) 
that provides advice or other services in relation to Chapter 5 
bodies corporate—the partnership firm; or
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Introductory  Chapter 1
Interpretation  Part 1.2
General  Division 1

Part 1.2  Interpretation
Division 2 of Part 7.7.
Section 9

Corporations Act 2001 71
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025(b) if the administrator, restructuring practitioner or liquidator is 
an officer or employee of a body corporate (the body 
corporate firm) that provides advice or other services in 
relation to Chapter 5 bodies corporate—the body corporate 
firm.
first levy period has the same meaning as in the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme of Last Resort Levy Act 2023.
floating charge includes a charge that conferred a floating security 
at the time of its creation but has since become a fixed or specific 
charge.
FMI banning order (short for financial market infrastructure 
banning order) means an order made under subsection 853H(1).
FMI licensee means:
(a) a market licensee; or
(b) a CS facility licensee; or
(c) a derivative trade repository licensee; or
(d) a benchmark administrator licensee.
for, in relation to a fee or tax, includes in respect of.
foreign company means:
(a) a body corporate that is incorporated in an external Territory, 
or outside Australia and the external Territories, and is not:
(i) a corporation sole; or
(ii) an exempt public authority; or
(b) an unincorporated body that:
(i) is formed in an external Territory or outside Australia 
and the external Territories; and
(ii) under the law of its place of formation, may sue or be 
sued, or may hold property in the name of its secretary 
or of an officer of the body duly appointed for that 
purpose; and
(iii) does not have its head office or principal place of 
business in Australia.
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Chapter 1  Introductory