Part 1.2AA  Signing and sending documents
Division 1  Technology neutral signing
Section 110A

Part 1.2AA  Signing and sending documents
Division 1  Technology neutral signing
210 Corporations Act 2001

Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025(a) by signing a physical form of the document by hand; or
(b) by signing an electronic form of the document using 
electronic means;
if the method of signing satisfies subsection (2).
Note: A document (including a deed) may be executed by or on behalf of a 
company without the use of paper, parchment or vellum: see 
subsections 126(6) and 127(3A).
(2) A method of signing satisfies this subsection if:
(a) the method identifies the person and indicates the person’s 
intention in respect of the information recorded in the 
document; and
(b) the method was either:
(i) as reliable as appropriate for the purpose for which the 
information was recorded, in light of all the 
circumstances, including any relevant agreement; or
(ii) proven in fact to have fulfilled the functions described 
in paragraph (a), by itself or together with further 
evidence.
What information the intention must cover
(3) For the purposes of paragraph (2)(a), the person is not required to 
indicate an intention in relation to:
(a) any material identifying another person signing the document 
or indicating another person’s intention in respect of the 
information recorded; or
(b) the signature of another person signing the document; or
(c) if a common seal is fixed to the document—the seal; or
(d) any immaterial information in a form of the document 
generated for the purposes of signing and which arises in the 
normal course of communication, storage or display.
Note: This subsection allows minor differences that arise from the way a 
document is signed to be disregarded. For example, a person can sign 
to witness the fixing of a common seal to a document, and it is not 
necessary for the signed document to include the common seal (as 
long as a method is used to indicate that the person observed the 
fixing of the seal, as required by paragraph 127(2A)(c)).
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Introductory  Chapter 1
Signing and sending documents  Part 1.2AA
Technology neutral signing  Division 1

Part 1.2AA  Signing and sending documents
Division 1  Technology neutral signing
Section 110A

Corporations Act 2001 211
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025Avoidance of doubt
(4) To avoid doubt, this section does not require:
(a) a person to sign the same form of the document as another 
person; or
(b) a person to sign the same page of the document as another 
person; or
(c) a person to use the same method to sign the document as 
another person; or
(d) all the information recorded in the document to be included 
in the form of the document signed by a person as mentioned 
in paragraph (1)(a) or (b).
Note: For example, a company may execute a document by one director 
signing a physical form of the document by hand, and another director 
signing an electronic form of the document by electronic means.
Persons signing in different capacities
(5) For the purposes of this section, a person who is to sign a 
document in more than one capacity:
(a) is treated as a different person in each such capacity they sign 
the document; and
(b) may sign the document in some or all of those capacities by 
signing the document once, if the document:
(i) requires or permits the person to do so; and
(ii) states the capacities in which the person is signing the 
document.
Example 1: If a signature block in a document requires or permits a person to sign 
once as the sole director and sole company secretary of a company, 
the person may sign the document as the sole director and sole 
company secretary by signing that signature block.
Example 2: If a signature block in a document requires or permits a person to sign 
once on behalf of 2 companies as an agent for both those companies, 
the person may sign the document as an agent for both those 
companies by signing that signature block.
Example 3: A person who is to sign a document in their capacity as the director of 
one company and their capacity as the company secretary of another 
company must sign the document twice if:
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Chapter 1  Introductory

Part 1.2AA  Signing and sending documents
Division 1  Technology neutral signing
Section 110B

Part 1.2AA  Signing and sending documents
Division 1  Technology neutral signing
212 Corporations Act 2001

Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025(a) one signature block in the document requires or permits the 
person to sign as the director of the first company; and
(b) another signature block in the document requires or permits the 
person to sign as the company secretary of the second company.

Part 1.2AA  Signing and sending documents
Division 1  Technology neutral signing
110B  Lodgement of documents

If:
(a) under this Act, the signature of a person is required or 
permitted on a document; and
(b) the person signs the document in accordance with 
section 110A; and
(c) the person or another person submits the document for 
lodgement; and
(d) the signature complies with any requirements relating to that 
lodgement under this Act or an instrument made under this 
Act;
ASIC or the Registrar (as the case requires) must not refuse to 
receive or register the document on the basis that the document has 
not been signed.
Note: This section does not prevent ASIC or the Registrar from refusing to 
receive or register the document on any other basis. For example, if 
the lodgement requirements mentioned in paragraph (d) (such as those 
under Chapter 2P) are not met, ASIC or the Registrar may refuse to 
receive or register the document.
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Introductory  Chapter 1
Signing and sending documents  Part 1.2AA
Technology neutral sending of documents, and related matters  Division 2

Part 1.2AA  Signing and sending documents
Division 1  Technology neutral signing
Section 110C

Corporations Act 2001 213
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025Division 2—Technology neutral sending of documents, and 
related matters

Part 1.2AA  Signing and sending documents
Division 1  Technology neutral signing
110C  Documents to which this Division applies

Sending documents
(1) This Division applies to any document covered by subsection (3) 
or (4) that is required or permitted under this Act to be sent by a 
person or entity (the sender) to another person or entity (the 
recipient).
(2) A reference in subsection (1) to an entity includes a reference to a 
disclosing entity.
Covered documents
(3) This subsection covers a document that is required or permitted be 
sent by the sender to the recipient under:
(a) this Chapter; or
(b) Chapters 2A to 2M; or
(c) Chapters 5 to 5D; or
(d) Chapter 6, 6A, 6B or 6C; or
(da) Division 3 of Part 7.7A; or
(e) Chapter 8A or 8B; or
(f) Chapter 9; or
(g) Schedule 2; or
(h) any other provision of this Act, to the extent that it relates to 
the provisions mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (g).
(4) This subsection covers a document that is in a class of documents 
specified in regulations made for the purposes of this subsection.
(5) However, this Division does not apply to a document that is 
required or permitted under this Act to be sent by or to ASIC, the 
Registrar or the Takeovers Panel.
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Chapter 1  Introductory