Part 2D.1  Duties and powers
Division 2  Disclosure of, and voting on matters involving, material personal interests
Section 191

Part 2D.1  Duties and powers
Division 2  Disclosure of, and voting on matters involving, material personal interests
360 Corporations Act 2001

Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025Division 2—Disclosure of, and voting on matters involving, 
material personal interests
Note: This Division applies in relation to CCIVs in a modified form: see sections 1225C and

Part 2D.1  Duties and powers
Division 2  Disclosure of, and voting on matters involving, material personal interests
1224K.

Part 2D.1  Duties and powers
Division 2  Disclosure of, and voting on matters involving, material personal interests
191  Material personal interest—director’s duty to disclose

Director’s duty to notify other directors of material personal 
interest when conflict arises
(1) A director of a company who has a material personal interest in a 
matter that relates to the affairs of the company must give the other 
directors notice of the interest unless subsection (2) says otherwise.
(1A) For an offence based on subsection (1), strict liability applies to the 
circumstance, that the director of a company has a material 
personal interest in a matter that relates to the affairs of the 
company.
Note: For strict liability, see section 6.1 of the Criminal Code.
(2) The director does not need to give notice of an interest under 
subsection (1) if:
(a) the interest:
(i) arises because the director is a member of the company 
and is held in common with the other members of the 
company; or
(ii) arises in relation to the director’s remuneration as a 
director of the company; or
(iii) relates to a contract the company is proposing to enter 
into that is subject to approval by the members and will 
not impose any obligation on the company if it is not 
approved by the members; or
(iv) arises merely because the director is a guarantor or has 
given an indemnity or security for all or part of a loan 
(or proposed loan) to the company; or
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Officers and employees  Chapter 2D
Duties and powers  Part 2D.1
Disclosure of, and voting on matters involving, material personal interests  Division 2

Part 2D.1  Duties and powers
Division 2  Disclosure of, and voting on matters involving, material personal interests
Section 191

Corporations Act 2001 361
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025(v) arises merely because the director has a right of 
subrogation in relation to a guarantee or indemnity 
referred to in subparagraph (iv); or
(vi) relates to a contract that insures, or would insure, the 
director against liabilities the director incurs as an 
officer of the company (but only if the contract does not 
make the company or a related body corporate the 
insurer); or
(vii) relates to any payment by the company or a related body 
corporate in respect of an indemnity permitted under 
section 199A or any contract relating to such an 
indemnity; or
(viii) is in a contract, or proposed contract, with, or for the 
benefit of, or on behalf of, a related body corporate and 
arises merely because the director is a director of the 
related body corporate; or
(b) the company is a proprietary company and the other directors 
are aware of the nature and extent of the interest and its 
relation to the affairs of the company; or
(c) all the following conditions are satisfied:
(i) the director has already given notice of the nature and 
extent of the interest and its relation to the affairs of the 
company under subsection (1);
(ii) if a person who was not a director of the company at the 
time when the notice under subsection (1) was given is 
appointed as a director of the company—the notice is 
given to that person;
(iii) the nature or extent of the interest has not materially 
increased above that disclosed in the notice; or
(d) the director has given a standing notice of the nature and 
extent of the interest under section 192 and the notice is still 
effective in relation to the interest.
Note: Subparagraph (c)(ii)—the notice may be given to the person referred 
to in this subparagraph by someone other than the director to whose 
interests it relates (for example, by the secretary).
(3) The notice required by subsection (1) must:
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Chapter 2D  Officers and employees

Part 2D.1  Duties and powers
Division 2  Disclosure of, and voting on matters involving, material personal interests
Section 192

Part 2D.1  Duties and powers
Division 2  Disclosure of, and voting on matters involving, material personal interests
362 Corporations Act 2001

Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025(a) give details of:
(i) the nature and extent of the interest; and
(ii) the relation of the interest to the affairs of the company; 
and
(b) be given at a directors’ meeting as soon as practicable after 
the director becomes aware of their interest in the matter.
The details must be recorded in the minutes of the meeting.
Effect of contravention by director
(4) A contravention of this section by a director does not affect the 
validity of any act, transaction, agreement, instrument, resolution 
or other thing.
Section does not apply to single director proprietary company
(5) This section does not apply to a proprietary company that has only

Part 2D.1  Duties and powers
Division 2  Disclosure of, and voting on matters involving, material personal interests
1 director.

Part 2D.1  Duties and powers
Division 2  Disclosure of, and voting on matters involving, material personal interests
192  Director may give other directors standing notice about an

interest
Power to give notice
(1) A director of a company who has an interest in a matter may give 
the other directors standing notice of the nature and extent of the 
interest in the matter in accordance with subsection (2). The notice 
may be given at any time and whether or not the matter relates to 
the affairs of the company at the time the notice is given.
Note: The standing notice may be given to the other directors before the 
interest becomes a material personal interest.
(2) The notice under subsection (1) must:
(a) give details of the nature and extent of the interest; and
(b) be given:
(i) at a directors’ meeting (either orally or in writing); or
(ii) to the other directors individually in writing.
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Officers and employees  Chapter 2D
Duties and powers  Part 2D.1
Disclosure of, and voting on matters involving, material personal interests  Division 2

Part 2D.1  Duties and powers
Division 2  Disclosure of, and voting on matters involving, material personal interests
Section 192

Corporations Act 2001 363
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025The standing notice is given under subparagraph (b)(ii) when it has 
been given to every director.
Standing notice must be tabled at meeting if given to directors 
individually
(3) If the standing notice is given to the other directors individually in 
writing, it must be tabled at the next directors’ meeting after it is 
given.
Nature and extent of interest must be recorded in minutes
(4) The director must ensure that the nature and extent of the interest 
disclosed in the standing notice is recorded in the minutes of the 
meeting at which the standing notice is given or tabled.
Dates of effect and expiry of standing notice
(5) The standing notice:
(a) takes effect as soon as it is given; and
(b) ceases to have effect if a person who was not a director of the 
company at the time when the notice was given is appointed 
as a director of the company.
A standing notice that ceases to have effect under paragraph (b) 
commences to have effect again if it is given to the person referred 
to in that paragraph.
Note: The notice may be given to the person referred to in paragraph (b) by 
someone other than the director to whose interests it relates (for 
example, by the secretary).
Effect of material increase in nature or extent of interest
(6) The standing notice ceases to have effect in relation to a particular 
interest if the nature or extent of the interest materially increases 
above that disclosed in the notice.
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Chapter 2D  Officers and employees

Part 2D.1  Duties and powers
Division 2  Disclosure of, and voting on matters involving, material personal interests
Section 193

Part 2D.1  Duties and powers
Division 2  Disclosure of, and voting on matters involving, material personal interests
364 Corporations Act 2001

Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025Effect of contravention by director
(7) A contravention of this section by a director does not affect the 
validity of any act, transaction, agreement, instrument, resolution 
or other thing.

Part 2D.1  Duties and powers
Division 2  Disclosure of, and voting on matters involving, material personal interests
193  Interaction of sections 191 and 192 with other laws etc.