Part 2G.2  Meetings of members of companies
Division 4  Members’ rights to put resolutions etc. at general meetings
Section 249P

Part 2G.2  Meetings of members of companies
Division 4  Members’ rights to put resolutions etc. at general meetings
498 Corporations Act 2001

Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025(2) The company must give all its members notice of the resolution at 
the same time, or as soon as practicable afterwards, and in the same 
way, as it gives notice of a meeting.
(3) The company is responsible for the cost of giving members notice 
of the resolution if the company receives the notice in time to send 
it out to members with the notice of meeting.
(4) The members requesting the meeting are jointly and individually 
liable for the expenses reasonably incurred by the company in 
giving members notice of the resolution if the company does not 
receive the members’ notice in time to send it out with the notice 
of meeting. At a general meeting, the company may resolve to 
meet the expenses itself.
(5) The company need not give notice of the resolution:
(a) if it is more than 1,000 words long or defamatory; or
(b) if the members making the request are to bear the expenses of 
sending the notice out—unless the members give the 
company a sum reasonably sufficient to meet the expenses 
that it will reasonably incur in giving the notice.

Part 2G.2  Meetings of members of companies
Division 4  Members’ rights to put resolutions etc. at general meetings
249P  Members’ statements to be distributed

(1) Members may request a company to give to all its members a 
statement provided by the members making the request about:
(a) a resolution that is proposed to be moved at a general 
meeting; or
(b) any other matter that may be properly considered at a general 
meeting.
(2) The request must be made by:
(a) members with at least 5% of the votes that may be cast on the 
resolution; or
(b) at least 100 members who are entitled to vote at the meeting.
(2A) The regulations may prescribe a different number of members for 
the purposes of the application of paragraph (2)(b) to:
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Meetings  Chapter 2G
Meetings of members of companies  Part 2G.2
Members’ rights to put resolutions etc. at general meetings  Division 4

Part 2G.2  Meetings of members of companies
Division 4  Members’ rights to put resolutions etc. at general meetings
Section 249P

Corporations Act 2001 499
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025(a) a particular company; or
(b) a particular class of company.
Without limiting this, the regulations may specify the number as a 
percentage of the total number of members of the company.
(3) The request must be:
(a) in writing; and
(b) signed by the members making the request; and
(c) given to the company.
(4) Separate copies of a document setting out the request may be used 
for signing by members if the wording of the request is identical in 
each copy.
(5) The percentage of votes that members have is to be worked out as 
at the midnight before the request is given to the company.
(6) After receiving the request, the company must distribute to all its 
members a copy of the statement at the same time, or as soon as 
practicable afterwards, and in the same way, as it gives notice of a 
general meeting.
(7) The company is responsible for the cost of making the distribution 
if the company receives the statement in time to send it out to 
members with the notice of meeting.
(8) The members making the request are jointly and individually liable 
for the expenses reasonably incurred by the company in making the 
distribution if the company does not receive the statement in time 
to send it out with the notice of meeting. At a general meeting, the 
company may resolve to meet the expenses itself.
(9) The company need not comply with the request:
(a) if the statement is more than 1,000 words long or 
defamatory; or
(b) if the members making the request are responsible for the 
expenses of the distribution—unless the members give the 
company a sum reasonably sufficient to meet the expenses 
that it will reasonably incur in making the distribution.
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Chapter 2G  Meetings