Part 2M.4  Appointment and removal of auditors
Division 1—Entities that may be appointed as an auditor

for a company, registered scheme or registrable 
superannuation entity

Part 2M.4  Appointment and removal of auditors
Division 1—Entities that may be appointed as an auditor
324AA  Individual auditors, audit firms and authorised audit

companies
(1) Subject to this Part, the following may be appointed as auditor for 
a company or a registered scheme for the purposes of this Act:
(a) an individual;
(b) a firm;
(c) a company.
The company or registered scheme may have more than one 
auditor.
(2) Subject to this Part, the following may be appointed as auditor for 
a registrable superannuation entity for the purposes of this Chapter:
(a) an individual;
(b) a firm;
(c) a company.
The entity may only have one auditor.
Note: In addition to audit requirements under this Chapter, a registrable 
superannuation entity has audit requirements under the RSE licensee 
law. Subsection 35AC(8) of the Superannuation Industry 
(Supervision) Act 1993 provides that the RSE licensee for a registrable 
superannuation entity must ensure that the auditor of the entity for the 
purposes of the RSE licensee law is the individual, firm or company 
that is the auditor of the entity for the purposes of this Chapter.
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Financial reports, sustainability reports and audit  Chapter 2M
Appointment and removal of auditors  Part 2M.4
Entities that may be appointed as an auditor for a company, registered scheme or 
registrable superannuation entity  Division 1

Part 2M.4  Appointment and removal of auditors
Division 1—Entities that may be appointed as an auditor
Section 324AB

Corporations Act 2001 133
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025324AB  Effect of appointing firm as auditor—general
(1) The appointment of a firm as auditor of a company, registered 
scheme or registrable superannuation entity is taken to be an 
appointment of all persons who, at the date of the appointment, are:
(a) members of the firm; and
(b) registered company auditors.
This is so whether or not those persons are resident in Australia.
(2) The appointment of the members of a firm as auditors of a 
company, registered scheme or registrable superannuation entity 
that is taken by subsection (1) to have been made because of the 
appointment of the firm as auditor of the company, scheme or 
entity is not affected by the dissolution of the firm. This subsection 
has effect subject to section 324AC.
(3) A report or notice that purports to be made or given by a firm 
appointed as auditor of a company, registered scheme or registrable 
superannuation entity is not taken to be duly made or given unless 
it is signed by a member of the firm who is a registered company 
auditor both:
(a) in the firm name; and
(b) in his or her own name.
(4) A notice required or permitted to be given to an audit firm under 
the Corporations legislation may be given to the firm by giving the 
notice to a member of the firm.
(5) For the purposes of criminal proceedings under this Act against a 
member of an audit firm, an act or omission by:
(a) a member of the firm; or
(b) an employee or agent of the audit firm;
acting within the actual or apparent scope of his or her 
employment, or within his or her actual or apparent authority, is 
also to be attributed to the audit firm.
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Chapter 2M  Financial reports, sustainability reports and audit