Part 5.7 body is unable to pay its debts.
586  Contributories in winding up of Part 5.7 body

(1) On a Part 5.7 body being wound up, every person who:
(a) in any case—is liable to pay or contribute to the payment of:
(i) a debt or liability of the Part 5.7 body; or
(ii) any sum for the adjustment of the rights of the members 
among themselves; or
(iii) the costs and expenses of winding up; or
(b) if the Part 5.7 body has been dissolved or deregistered in its 
place of origin—was so liable immediately before the 
dissolution or deregistration;
is a contributory and every contributory is liable to contribute to 
the property of the Part 5.7 body all sums due from the 
contributory in respect of any such liability.
(2) On the death or bankruptcy of a contributory, the provisions of this 
Act with respect to the personal representatives of deceased 
contributories or the assignees and trustees of bankrupt 
contributories, as the case may be, apply.
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025External administration  Chapter 5
Winding up bodies other than companies  Part 5.7

Part 5.7 body is unable to pay its debts.
Section 587

Corporations Act 2001 665
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025587  Power of Court to stay or restrain proceedings
(1) The provisions of this Act with respect to staying and restraining 
actions and other civil proceedings against a company at any time 
after the filing of an application for winding up and before the 
making of a winding up order extend, in the case of a Part 5.7 body 
where the application to stay or restrain is by a creditor, to actions 
and other civil proceedings against a contributory of the Part 5.7 
body.
(2) Where an order has been made for winding up a Part 5.7 body, no 
action or other civil proceeding is to be proceeded with or 
commenced against a contributory of the Part 5.7 body in respect 
of a debt of the Part 5.7 body except by leave of the Court and 
subject to such terms as the Court imposes.

Part 5.7 body is unable to pay its debts.
588  Outstanding property of defunct registrable body

(1) This section applies if, after the dissolution or deregistration of a 
registrable body, outstanding property of the body remains:
(a) in this jurisdiction; and
(b) outside the body’s place of origin.
(2) The estate and interest in the property, at law or in equity, of the 
body or its liquidator at that time, together with all claims, rights 
and remedies that the body or its liquidator then had in respect of 
the property, vests by force of this section in:
(a) if the body was incorporated in Australia or an external 
Territory—the person entitled to the property under the law 
of the body’s place of origin; or
(b) if paragraph (a) does not apply and the property was held by 
the body or liquidator on trust—the Commonwealth; or
(c) otherwise—ASIC.
(3) Where any claim, right or remedy of a liquidator may under this 
Act be made, exercised or availed of only with the approval or 
concurrence of the Court or some other person, the Commonwealth 
or ASIC may, for the purposes of this section, make, exercise or 
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Chapter 5  External administration