Part 2M.6  Exemptions and modifications
Division 3 of Part 2M.4 would:

(a) make the financial report or other reports misleading; or
(b) be inappropriate in the circumstances; or
(c) impose unreasonable burdens.

Part 2M.6  Exemptions and modifications
Division 3 of Part 2M.4 would:
342A  ASIC’s power to modify the operation of section 324DA

(1) On an application made in accordance with this section, ASIC 
may:
(a) declare that subsection 324DA(1) applies to a registered 
company auditor, in relation to the audit of an audited body 
or a class of audited bodies, as if the references in that 
subsection to 5 successive financial years were references to:
(i) 6 successive financial years; or
(ii) 7 successive financial years; or
(b) declare that subsection 324DA(2) applies to a registered 
company auditor, in relation to the audit of an audited body 
or a class of audited bodies during a particular period of 7 
successive financial years, as if the reference in that 
subsection to 5 out of 7 successive financial years were a 
reference to 6 out of 7 successive financial years.
(2) The following persons may apply for the declaration:
(a) the registered company auditor;
(b) a firm or company on whose behalf the registered company 
auditor acts or would act in relation to the audit or audits.
If the application is made by a firm or company, the declaration 
has effect only in relation to activities undertaken by the registered 
company auditor on behalf of that firm or company.
(3) The application must be:
(a) in writing; and
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Financial reports, sustainability reports and audit  Chapter 2M
Exemptions and modifications  Part 2M.6

Part 2M.6  Exemptions and modifications
Division 3 of Part 2M.4 would:
Section 342A

Corporations Act 2001 247
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025(b) signed by the applicant; and
(c) lodged with ASIC.
(4) If the application is made by a registered company auditor who 
engages, or is to engage, in audit activities on behalf of a firm or 
company, the application must include the firm’s or company’s 
written consent to the application.
(5) If the application is made by a firm or company in relation to a 
registered company auditor, the application must include the 
registered company auditor’s written consent to the application.
(5A) Before making a declaration in relation to the audit of a registrable 
superannuation entity or a class of registrable superannuation 
entities, ASIC must consult APRA.
(6) To make a declaration under subsection (1), ASIC must be 
satisfied that, without the modification, Division 4 of Part 2M.4 
would impose an unreasonable burden on:
(a) a registered company auditor; or
(b) a firm or company that is applying for the declaration; or
(c) the audited body or bodies in relation to which the 
application was made.
(7) In deciding for the purposes of subsection (6) whether, without the 
modification, Division 4 of Part 2M.4 would impose an 
unreasonable burden on a person referred to in that subsection, 
ASIC is to have regard to:
(a) the nature of the audited body or bodies, including whether 
the activity in which the audited body or bodies engage is 
such that specialist knowledge about that activity is necessary 
to carry out the audit properly; and
(b) the availability of other registered company auditors capable 
of providing satisfactory audit services for the audited body 
or bodies; and
(c) any other matters which ASIC considers relevant.
(8) ASIC must give the applicant written notice of the making, 
revocation or suspension of the declaration.
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Chapter 2M  Financial reports, sustainability reports and audit