Part 7.7  Financial services disclosure
Division 6  Miscellaneous
Section 951A

Part 7.7  Financial services disclosure
Division 6  Miscellaneous
678 Corporations Act 2001

Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025Division 6—Miscellaneous

Part 7.7  Financial services disclosure
Division 6  Miscellaneous
951A  Part cannot be contracted out of

A condition of a contract for the acquisition of a financial product, 
or for the provision of a financial service, is void if it provides that 
a party to the contract is:
(a) required or bound to waive compliance with any requirement 
of this Part; or
(b) taken to have notice of any contract, document or matter not 
specifically referred to in a Financial Services Guide, 
Statement of Advice, Cash Settlement Fact Sheet or other 
document given to the party.

Part 7.7  Financial services disclosure
Division 6  Miscellaneous
951B  Exemptions and modifications by ASIC

(1) ASIC may:
(a) exempt a person or a class of persons from all or specified 
provisions of this Part; or
(b) exempt a financial product or class of financial products from 
all or specified provisions of this Part; or
(c) declare that this Part applies in relation to a person or a 
financial product, or a class of persons or financial products, 
as if specified provisions of this Part were omitted, modified 
or varied as specified in the declaration.
(3) An exemption may apply unconditionally or subject to specified 
conditions. A person to whom a condition specified in an 
exemption applies must comply with the condition. The Court may 
order the person to comply with the condition in a specified way. 
Only ASIC may apply to the Court for the order.
(4) An exemption or declaration must be in writing and ASIC must 
publish notice of it in the Gazette.
(5) If conduct (including an omission) of a person would not have 
constituted an offence if a particular declaration under 
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Financial services and markets  Chapter 7
Financial services disclosure  Part 7.7
Miscellaneous  Division 6

Part 7.7  Financial services disclosure
Division 6  Miscellaneous
Section 951C

Corporations Act 2001 679
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025paragraph (1)(c) had not been made, that conduct does not 
constitute an offence unless, before the conduct occurred (in 
addition to complying with the gazettal requirement of 
subsection (4)):
(a) the text of the declaration was made available by ASIC on 
the internet; or
(b) ASIC gave written notice setting out the text of the 
declaration to the person.
In a prosecution for an offence to which this subsection applies, the 
prosecution must prove that paragraph (a) or (b) was complied with 
before the conduct occurred.
(6) For the purpose of this section, the provisions of this Part include:
(a) definitions in this Act, or in the regulations, as they apply to 
references in this Part; and
(b) any provisions of Part 10.2 (transitional provisions) that 
relate to provisions of this Part.
Note: Because of section 761H, a reference to this Part or Part 10.2 also 
includes a reference to regulations or other instruments made for the 
purposes of this Part or Part 10.2 (as the case requires).

Part 7.7  Financial services disclosure
Division 6  Miscellaneous
951C  Exemptions and modifications by regulations

(1) The regulations may:
(a) exempt a person or class of persons from all or specified 
provisions of this Part; or
(b) exempt a financial product or a class of financial products 
from all or specified provisions of this Part; or
(c) provide that this Part applies as if specified provisions were 
omitted, modified or varied as specified in the regulations.
(2) For the purpose of this section, the provisions of this Part include:
(a) definitions in this Act, or in the regulations, as they apply to 
references in this Part; and
(b) any provisions of Part 10.2 (transitional provisions) that 
relate to provisions of this Part.
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Chapter 7  Financial services and markets