Part 7.2  Licensing of financial markets
Division 3  Regulation of market licensees
76 Corporations Act 2001

Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025(b) the operation of the market in that country will be subject to 
requirements and supervision that are sufficiently equivalent, 
in relation to the degree of investor protection and market 
integrity they achieve, to the requirements and supervision to 
which financial markets are subject under this Act in relation 
to those matters.
(2) If, in relation to a licence granted under subsection 795B(2), the 
licensee’s principal place of business changes to become a place in 
Australia:
(a) the licence ceases to be in force from the time of the change; 
and
(b) if the licensee wishes the market to continue to be licensed, 
the licensee may apply for the grant of a new licence under 
subsection 795B(1); and
(c) the application must be assessed in accordance with

Part 7.2  Licensing of financial markets
Division 3  Regulation of market licensees
Section 793C

Part 7.2  Licensing of financial markets
Division 3  Regulation of market licensees
78 Corporations Act 2001

Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025those other rules prevail over the operating rules to the extent of 
the inconsistency.
Note 1: If there is an inconsistency between the market integrity rules and the 
derivative transaction rules or the derivative trade repository rules, the 
market integrity rules prevail: see subsection 798H(3).
Note 2: If there is an inconsistency between the derivative transaction rules 
and the derivative trade repository rules, the derivative transaction 
rules prevail: see subsection 901E(2).
Note 3: If there is an inconsistency between the market integrity rules, the 
derivative transaction rules or the derivative trade repository rules and 
the client money reporting rules, the market integrity rules, the 
derivative transaction rules or the derivative trade repository rules 
prevail: see subsection 981M(2).
(3) Subsection (2) does not apply in relation to a financial market the 
operator of which is licensed under subsection 795B(2) (overseas 
markets).

Part 7.2  Licensing of financial markets
Division 3  Regulation of market licensees
793C  Enforcement of operating rules

(1) If a person who is under an obligation to comply with or enforce 
any of a licensed market’s operating rules fails to meet that 
obligation, an application to the Court may be made by:
(a) ASIC; or
(b) the licensee; or
(c) the operator of a clearing and settlement facility with which 
the licensee has clearing and settlement arrangements; or
(d) a person aggrieved by the failure.
(2) After giving an opportunity to be heard to the applicant and the 
person against whom the order is sought, the Court may make an 
order giving directions to:
(a) the person against whom the order is sought; or
(b) if that person is a body corporate (other than a notified 
foreign passport fund)—the directors of the body corporate;
about compliance with, or enforcement of, the operating rules.
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Financial services and markets  Chapter 7
Licensing of financial markets  Part 7.2
Regulation of market licensees  Division 3

Part 7.2  Licensing of financial markets
Division 3  Regulation of market licensees
Section 793C

Corporations Act 2001 79
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025(3) For the purposes of this section, a body corporate (other than a 
notified foreign passport fund) that is, with its agreement, consent 
or acquiescence, included in the official list of a licensed market, 
or an associate of such a body corporate, is taken to be under an 
obligation to comply with the operating rules of that market to the 
extent to which those rules purport to apply to the body corporate 
or associate.
(4) For the purposes of this section, if a disclosing entity that is an 
undertaking to which interests in a registered scheme relate is, with 
the responsible entity’s agreement, consent or acquiescence, 
included in the official list of a licensed market, the responsible 
entity, or an associate of the responsible entity, is taken to be under 
an obligation to comply with the operating rules of that market to 
the extent to which those rules purport to apply to the responsible 
entity or associate.
(4A) For the purposes of this section, if a disclosing entity that is an 
undertaking to which interests in a notified foreign passport fund 
relate is, with the agreement, consent or acquiescence of the 
operator of the fund, included in the official list of a licensed 
market, the operator of the fund, or an associate of the operator, is 
taken to be under an obligation to comply with the operating rules 
of that market to the extent to which those rules purport to apply to 
the operator or associate.
(4B) For the purposes of this section, if:
(a) subsection (3) does not apply to a CCIV; and
(b) a sub-fund of the CCIV is, with the agreement, consent or 
acquiescence of the CCIV, included in the official list of a 
licensed market;
the CCIV, or an associate of the CCIV, is taken to be under an 
obligation to comply with the operating rules of that market to the 
extent to which those rules purport to apply to the CCIV or 
associate.
Note: Subsection (3) may apply to a CCIV instead of this subsection if the 
CCIV, and not a sub-fund, is included in the official list of a licensed 
market.
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Chapter 7  Financial services and markets

Part 7.2  Licensing of financial markets
Division 3  Regulation of market licensees
Section 793D

Part 7.2  Licensing of financial markets
Division 3  Regulation of market licensees
80 Corporations Act 2001

Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025(5) For the purposes of this section, if a body corporate fails to comply 
with or enforce provisions of the operating rules of a licensed 
market, a person who holds financial products of the body 
corporate that are able to be traded on the market is taken to be a 
person aggrieved by the failure.
(6) There may be other circumstances in which a person may be 
aggrieved by a failure for the purposes of this section.

Part 7.2  Licensing of financial markets
Division 3  Regulation of market licensees
793D  Changing the operating rules

Licensed markets other than subsection 795B(2) markets
(1) As soon as practicable after a change is made to the operating rules 
of a licensed market, other than a market licensed under 
subsection 795B(2) (overseas markets), the licensee must lodge 
with ASIC in a prescribed form written notice of the change. The 
notice must:
(a) set out the text of the change; and
(b) specify the date on which the change was made; and
(c) contain an explanation of the purpose of the change.
(2) If no notice is lodged as required by subsection (1) with ASIC 
within 21 days after the change is made, the change ceases to have 
effect at the end of that period.
Subsection 795B(2) markets
(3) As soon as practicable after a change is made to the operating rules 
of a market the operation of which is licensed under 
subsection 795B(2) (overseas markets), the licensee must lodge 
with ASIC in a prescribed form written notice of the change. The 
notice must:
(a) set out the text of the change; and
(b) specify the date on which the change was made; and
(c) contain an explanation of the purpose of the change.
Note: Failure to comply with this subsection is an offence (see 
subsection 1311(1)).
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Financial services and markets  Chapter 7
Licensing of financial markets  Part 7.2
Regulation of market licensees  Division 3

Part 7.2  Licensing of financial markets
Division 3  Regulation of market licensees
Section 793E

Corporations Act 2001 81
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025793E  Disallowance of changes to operating rules
(1) This section does not apply in respect of an Australian market 
licence granted under subsection 795B(2) (overseas markets).
(3) Within 28 days after ASIC receives a notice under section 793D 
from a market licensee, ASIC may disallow all or a specified part 
of the change to the operating rules.
(4) In deciding whether to do so, ASIC must have regard to the 
consistency of the change with the licensee’s obligations under this 
Part (including in particular the obligation mentioned in 
paragraph 792A(1)(a)).
Note: ASIC must also have regard to the matters in section 798A.
(5) As soon as practicable after all or a part of a change is disallowed, 
ASIC must give notice of the disallowance to the licensee. The 
change ceases to have effect, to the extent of the disallowance, 
when the licensee receives the notice.

Part 7.2  Licensing of financial markets
Division 3  Regulation of market licensees
Section 794AA

Part 7.2  Licensing of financial markets
Division 3  Regulation of market licensees
82 Corporations Act 2001