Part 9.5  Powers of Courts
Section 1323

Corporations Act 2001 195
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025(ii) if the relevant person is a body corporate—a receiver or 
receiver and manager, having such powers as the Court 
orders, of the property or of part of the property of that 
person;
(j) if the relevant person is a natural person—an order requiring 
that person to deliver up to the Court his or her passport and 
such other documents as the Court thinks fit;
(k) if the relevant person is a natural person—an order 
prohibiting that person from leaving this jurisdiction, or 
Australia, without the consent of the Court.
(2A) A reference in paragraph (1)(g) or (h) to property of a person 
includes a reference to property that the person holds otherwise 
than as sole beneficial owner, for example:
(a) as trustee for, as nominee for, or otherwise on behalf of or on 
account of, another person; or
(b) in a fiduciary capacity.
(2B) Subsection (2A) is to avoid doubt, is not to limit the generality of 
anything in subsection (1) and is not to affect by implication the 
interpretation of any other provision of this Act.
(2) An order under subsection (1) prohibiting conduct may prohibit the 
conduct either absolutely or subject to conditions.
(3) Where an application is made to the Court for an order under 
subsection (1), the Court may, if in the opinion of the Court it is 
desirable to do so, before considering the application, grant an 
interim order, being an order of the kind applied for that is 
expressed to have effect pending the determination of the 
application.
(4) On an application under subsection (1), the Court must not require 
the applicant or any other person, as a condition of granting an 
interim order under subsection (3), to give an undertaking as to 
damages.
(5) Where the Court has made an order under this section on a 
person’s application, the Court may, on application by that person 
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Chapter 9  Miscellaneous

Part 9.5  Powers of Courts

Part 9.5  Powers of Courts
Section 1324

Part 9.5  Powers of Courts
196 Corporations Act 2001

Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025or by any person affected by the order, make a further order 
discharging or varying the first-mentioned order.
(6) An order made under subsection (1) or (2) may be expressed to 
operate for a specified period or until the order is discharged by a 
further order under this section.
(7) Nothing in this section affects the powers that the Court has apart 
from this section.
(8) This section has effect subject to the Bankruptcy Act 1966.
(9) A person must not contravene an order by the Court under this 
section that is applicable to the person.
(10) An offence based on subsection (9) is an offence of strict liability.
Note: For strict liability, see section 6.1 of the Criminal Code.

Part 9.5  Powers of Courts
1324  Injunctions

(1) Where a person has engaged, is engaging or is proposing to engage 
in conduct that constituted, constitutes or would constitute:
(a) a contravention of this Act; or
(b) attempting to contravene this Act; or
(c) aiding, abetting, counselling or procuring a person to 
contravene this Act; or
(d) inducing or attempting to induce, whether by threats, 
promises or otherwise, a person to contravene this Act; or
(e) being in any way, directly or indirectly, knowingly concerned 
in, or party to, the contravention by a person of this Act; or
(f) conspiring with others to contravene this Act;
the Court may, on the application of ASIC, or of a person whose 
interests have been, are or would be affected by the conduct, grant 
an injunction, on such terms as the Court thinks appropriate, 
restraining the first-mentioned person from engaging in the 
conduct and, if in the opinion of the Court it is desirable to do so, 
requiring that person to do any act or thing.
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Miscellaneous  Chapter 9
Powers of Courts  Part 9.5

Part 9.5  Powers of Courts
Section 1324

Corporations Act 2001 197
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025(1A) For the purposes of subsection (1):
(a) a contravention of this Act affects the interests of a creditor 
or member of a company if the insolvency of the company is 
an element of the contravention; and
(b) a company’s contravention of:
(i) paragraph 257A(1)(a) (share buy-back not to prejudice 
ability to pay creditors); or
(ia) paragraph 256B(1)(b) (share capital reduction not to 
prejudice ability to pay creditors); or
(ii) paragraph 260A(1)(a) (financial assistance for share 
acquisition not to prejudice company or shareholders or 
ability to pay creditors);
affects the interests of a creditor or member of the company; 
and
(c) a company’s contravention of paragraph 256B(1)(a) (fair and 
reasonable test for share capital reduction) affects the 
interests of a member of the company.
This subsection does not limit subsection (1) in any way.
(1B) If the ground relied on in an application for an injunction is 
conduct or proposed conduct of a company or other person that it is 
alleged constitutes, or would constitute:
(a) a contravention of paragraph 256B(1)(a) or (b), section 257A 
or paragraph 260A(1)(a); or
(b) a contravention of a provision of this Act involving the 
insolvency of the company because of:
(i) the company making a reduction of its share capital to 
which Division 1 of Part 2J.1 applies; or
(ii) the company buying back its shares; or
(iii) the company giving financial assistance to which

Part 9.5  Powers of Courts

Part 9.5  Powers of Courts
Section 1324

Part 9.5  Powers of Courts
198 Corporations Act 2001

Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025(2) Where a person has refused or failed, is refusing or failing, or is 
proposing to refuse or fail, to do an act or thing that the person is 
required by this Act to do, the Court may, on the application of:
(a) ASIC; or
(b) any person whose interests have been, are or would be 
affected by the refusal or failure to do that act or thing;
grant an injunction, on such terms as the Court thinks appropriate, 
requiring the first-mentioned person to do that act or thing.
(3) Where an application for an injunction under subsection (1) or (2) 
has been made, the Court may, if the Court determines it to be 
appropriate, grant an injunction by consent of all the parties to the 
proceedings, whether or not the Court is satisfied that that 
subsection applies.
(4) Where in the opinion of the Court it is desirable to do so, the Court 
may grant an interim injunction pending determination of an 
application under subsection (1).
(5) The Court may discharge or vary an injunction granted under 
subsection (1), (2) or (4).
(6) The power of the Court to grant an injunction restraining a person 
from engaging in conduct may be exercised:
(a) whether or not it appears to the Court that the person intends 
to engage again, or to continue to engage, in conduct of that 
kind; and
(b) whether or not the person has previously engaged in conduct 
of that kind; and
(c) whether or not there is an imminent danger of substantial 
damage to any person if the first-mentioned person engages 
in conduct of that kind.
(7) The power of the Court to grant an injunction requiring a person to 
do an act or thing may be exercised:
(a) whether or not it appears to the Court that the person intends 
to refuse or fail again, or to continue to refuse or fail, to do 
that act or thing; and
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Miscellaneous  Chapter 9
Powers of Courts  Part 9.5

Part 9.5  Powers of Courts
Section 1324A

Corporations Act 2001 199
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025(b) whether or not the person has previously refused or failed to 
do that act or thing; and
(c) whether or not there is an imminent danger of substantial 
damage to any person if the first-mentioned person refuses or 
fails to do that act or thing.
(8) Where ASIC applies to the Court for the grant of an injunction 
under this section, the Court must not require the applicant or any 
other person, as a condition of granting an interim injunction, to 
give an undertaking as to damages.
(9) In proceedings under this section against a person the Court may 
make an order under section 1323 in respect of the person.
(10) Where the Court has power under this section to grant an 
injunction restraining a person from engaging in particular 
conduct, or requiring a person to do a particular act or thing, the 
Court may, either in addition to or in substitution for the grant of 
the injunction, order that person to pay damages to any other 
person.

Part 9.5  Powers of Courts
1324A  Provisions relating to prosecutions