Part 10.1—Transition from the old corporations
Division 1—Preliminary
1370  Object of Part

(1) Subject to subsection (3), the object of this Part is to provide for a 
smooth transition from the regime provided for in the old 
corporations legislation of the States and Territories in this 
jurisdiction to the regime provided for in the new corporations 
legislation, so that individuals, bodies corporate and other bodies 
are, to the greatest extent possible, put in the same position 
immediately after the commencement as they would have been if:
(a) that old corporations legislation had, from time to time when 
it was in force, been valid Commonwealth legislation 
applying throughout those States and Territories; and
(b) the new corporations legislation (to the extent it contains 
provisions that correspond to provisions of the old 
corporations legislation as in force immediately before the 
commencement) were a continuation of that old corporations 
legislation as so applying.
Note: The new corporations legislation contains provisions that correspond 
to most of the provisions of the old corporations legislation. 
Generally, the only exceptions to this are provisions of the old 
corporations legislation that related to the fact that the Corporations 
Law operated separately in each of the States and Territories (rather 
than as a single national law).
(2) In resolving any ambiguity as to the meaning of any of the other 
provisions of this Part, an interpretation that is consistent with the 
object of this Part is to be preferred to an interpretation that is not 
consistent with that object.
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Transitional provisions  Chapter 10
Transition from the old corporations legislation  Part 10.1
Preliminary  Division 1

Part 10.1—Transition from the old corporations
Division 1—Preliminary
Section 1371

Corporations Act 2001 257
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025(3) This Part does contain some provisions (for example, 
subsection 1400(4)) which apply or extend to matters under the old 
corporations legislation of any non-referring State.

Part 10.1—Transition from the old corporations
Division 1—Preliminary
1371  Definitions

(1) In this Part:
carried over provision of the old corporations legislation of a State 
or Territory in this jurisdiction means a provision of the old 
corporations legislation of that State or Territory that:
(a) was in force immediately before the commencement; and
(b) corresponds to a provision of the new corporations 
legislation.
commencement means the commencement of this Act.
corresponds has a meaning affected by subsections (2), (3) and (4).
instrument means:
(a) any instrument of a legislative character (including an Act or 
regulations) or of an administrative character; or
(b) any other document.
liability includes a duty or obligation.
made includes issued, given or published.
new corporations legislation means:
(a) this Act; and
(b) the new Corporations Regulations (as amended and in force 
from time to time) and any other regulations made under this 
Act; and
(c) the laws of the Commonwealth referred to in paragraph (c) of 
the definition of old corporations legislation, being those 
laws as they apply after the commencement; and
(d) the preserved instruments.
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Chapter 10  Transitional provisions