old corporations legislation

Part 10.1  Transition from the old corporations legislation
Division 6  General transitional provisions relating to other things done etc. under the
Section 1405

Part 10.1  Transition from the old corporations legislation
Division 6  General transitional provisions relating to other things done etc. under the
296 Corporations Act 2001

Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/20251405  References in the new corporations legislation to that 
legislation or the new ASIC legislation generally include 
references to corresponding provisions of the old 
corporations legislation or old ASIC legislation
(1) Subject to subsection (4), a reference in the new corporations 
legislation to:
(a) an Act, or regulations or another instrument that is part of the 
new corporations legislation; or
(b) a provision or group of provisions of such an Act, regulations 
or other instrument;
is taken, in relation to events, circumstances or things that 
happened or arose at a time before the commencement when the 
old corporations legislation was in force, to include (in the absence 
of an express provision to the contrary) a reference to the 
corresponding part, provision or provisions of the old corporations 
legislation of the States and Territories in this jurisdiction.
(2) Subject to subsection (4), a reference in the new corporations 
legislation to:
(a) an Act, or regulations or some other instrument that is part of 
the new ASIC legislation; or
(b) a provision or group of provisions of such an Act, regulations 
or other instrument;
is taken, in relation to events, circumstances or things that 
happened or arose at a time before the commencement when the 
old corporations legislation was in force, to include (in the absence 
of an express provision to the contrary) a reference to the 
corresponding part, provision or provisions of the old ASIC 
legislation of the Commonwealth, of the States in this jurisdiction 
and of the Northern Territory.
(3) In subsection (2):
(a)new ASIC legislation and old ASIC legislation have the 
same meanings as they have in Part 16 of the Australian 
Securities and Investments Commission Act 2001; and
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Transitional provisions  Chapter 10
Transition from the old corporations legislation  Part 10.1
General transitional provisions relating to other things done etc. under the old 
corporations legislation  Division 6

Part 10.1  Transition from the old corporations legislation
Division 6  General transitional provisions relating to other things done etc. under the
Section 1406

Corporations Act 2001 297
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025(b) the question whether a provision or part of the old ASIC 
legislation corresponds to a provision of part of the new 
ASIC legislation is to be determined in the same way as it is 
determined for the purposes of Part 16 of the Australian 
Securities and Investments Commission Act 2001.
(4) The regulations may provide that subsection (1) or (2) does not 
apply in relation to a particular reference or class of references in 
the new corporations legislation.

Part 10.1  Transition from the old corporations legislation
Division 6  General transitional provisions relating to other things done etc. under the
1406  Carrying over references to corresponding previous laws

(1) If a carried over provision of the old corporations legislation of a 
State or Territory in this jurisdiction contained a reference 
(whether in its own terms or by operation of another provision) to:
(a) a corresponding previous law (as defined for the purposes of 
that provision or provisions including that provision); or
(b) a thing done by, under, or for the purposes of, such a law;
the corresponding provision of the new corporations legislation is 
taken to contain an equivalent reference to that previous law, or to 
such a thing done by, under, or for the purposes of, that previous 
law.
(2) The following references in the old corporations legislation of the 
States and Territories in this jurisdiction are covered by 
subsection (1) in the same way as they would be if they used the 
“corresponding previous law” form of words:
(a) the reference in subsection 1274AA(1) to a “previous Law”;
(b) the reference in subparagraph 1274AA(2)(b)(ii) to a 
“previous law of this jurisdiction before the commencement 
of this Part that corresponds”;
(c) any other references prescribed by the regulations for the 
purposes of this subsection.
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Chapter 10  Transitional provisions

Part 10.1  Transition from the old corporations legislation
Division 6  General transitional provisions relating to other things done etc. under the

old corporations legislation

Part 10.1  Transition from the old corporations legislation
Division 6  General transitional provisions relating to other things done etc. under the
Section 1407

Part 10.1  Transition from the old corporations legislation
Division 6  General transitional provisions relating to other things done etc. under the
298 Corporations Act 2001

Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/20251407  References to old corporations legislation in instruments
(1) Subject to subsection (2), a reference in, or taken immediately 
before the commencement to be in, an instrument, other than:
(a) an Act of a State, the Australian Capital Territory, the 
Northern Territory or Norfolk Island; or
(b) an instrument made under such an Act;
to:
(c) an Act, or to regulations or some other instrument, that is part 
of the old corporations legislation (whether the reference is in 
general terms or in relation to a particular State or Territory 
in this jurisdiction); or
(d) to a provision or group of provisions of such an Act, 
regulations or other instrument;
is taken, after the commencement, to include a reference to the 
corresponding part, provision or provisions of the new corporations 
legislation (unless there is no such corresponding part, provision or 
provisions).
Note: This section will, for example, apply to:
(a) a reference in another Commonwealth Act to the Corporations 
Law; or
(b) a reference in the Corporations Regulations to the Corporations 
Law; or
(c) a reference in a company’s constitution to a particular provision 
of the Corporations Law.
(2) The regulations may do either or both of the following:
(a) provide that subsection (1) does not apply in relation to 
prescribed references in prescribed instruments;
(b) provide that subsection (1) has effect in relation to prescribed 
references in prescribed instruments as if, in that subsection, 
the words “to be” were substituted for the words “to 
include”.

Part 10.1  Transition from the old corporations legislation
Division 6  General transitional provisions relating to other things done etc. under the
1408  Old transitional provisions continue to have their effect

(1) Subject to subsection (3), this Act has the same effect, after the 
commencement, as it would have if:
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Transitional provisions  Chapter 10
Transition from the old corporations legislation  Part 10.1
General transitional provisions relating to other things done etc. under the old 
corporations legislation  Division 6

Part 10.1  Transition from the old corporations legislation
Division 6  General transitional provisions relating to other things done etc. under the
Section 1408

Corporations Act 2001 299
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025(a) the transitional provisions (see subsections (6) and (7)) of the 
old Corporations Laws of the States and Territories in this 
jurisdiction (as in force from time to time before the 
commencement) had been part of this Act; and
(b) those transitional provisions produced the same results or 
effects (to the greatest extent possible) for the purposes of 
this Act as they produced for the purposes of those old 
Corporations Laws.
(2) Without limiting subsection (1) (but subject to subsection (3)), if a 
transitional provision of the old Corporations Law of a State or 
Territory in this jurisdiction could, if it had continued in force after 
the commencement, have operated to give rise to rights and 
liabilities (including civil or criminal liabilities) in relation to acts 
or omissions occurring after the commencement, this Act is taken 
to include that transitional provision (with such modifications (if 
any) as are necessary.
Note: In relation to acts or omissions that occurred before the 
commencement, equivalent rights and liabilities are created by 
sections 1400 and 1401.
(3) The regulations may determine how a matter dealt with in a 
transitional provision of the old Corporations Law of a State or 
Territory in this jurisdiction is to be dealt with under or in relation 
to the new corporations legislation (including by creating 
offences). The regulations have effect despite subsections (1) and 
(2), but subject to subsection (5).
Note: In creating offences, the regulations are subject to the limitation 
imposed by section 1375.
(4) For the purpose of determining whether the new corporations 
legislation includes a provision that corresponds to a provision of 
the old corporations legislation of a State or Territory, and for the 
purpose of any reference in this part to a corresponding provision 
of the new corporations legislation, this Act is taken to include the 
transitional provisions of the old corporations legislation of the 
States and Territories, as they have effect because of 
subsections (1) and (2).
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Chapter 10  Transitional provisions

Part 10.1  Transition from the old corporations legislation
Division 6  General transitional provisions relating to other things done etc. under the

old corporations legislation