Part as set out in section 1370. Some of the provisions of this
Division will (depending on the situation) have an effect that

overlaps or interacts to some extent with the effect of other 
provisions of this Division. This is intended, and the provisions of 
this Division should be not be regarded as dealing with mutually 
exclusive situations.

Part as set out in section 1370. Some of the provisions of this
Division will (depending on the situation) have an effect that
1399  Things done by etc. carried over provisions continue to have

effect
(1) Subject to this section, a thing that:
(a) was done before the commencement by, under, or for the 
purposes of, a carried over provision of the old corporations 
legislation of a State or Territory in this jurisdiction; and
(b) had an ongoing significance (see subsections (4) and (5)) 
immediately before the commencement for the purposes of 
that legislation;
has effect (and may be dealt with) after the commencement, for the 
purposes of the new corporations legislation, as if it were done by, 
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Transitional provisions  Chapter 10
Transition from the old corporations legislation  Part 10.1
General transitional provisions relating to other things done etc. under the old 
corporations legislation  Division 6

Part as set out in section 1370. Some of the provisions of this
Division will (depending on the situation) have an effect that
Section 1399

Corporations Act 2001 287
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025under, or for the purposes of, the corresponding provision of the 
new corporations legislation.
Note: This section covers all kinds of things done, including things of a 
coercive nature or done for coercive purposes.
(2) Examples of things done include:
(a) the making of an instrument or order (but not including the 
making of an order by a court); and
(b) the making of an application or claim (but not including the 
making of an application or claim to a court); and
(c) the granting of an application or claim (but not including the 
granting of an application or claim by a court); and
(d) the making of an appointment or delegation; and
(e) the commencement of a procedure or the taking of a step in a 
procedure (but not including the commencement of a 
proceeding in a court); and
(f) the establishment of a register or fund; and
(g) requiring a person to do, or not to do, something (but not 
including a requirement contained in an order made by a 
court); and
(h) the giving of a notice or document.
(3) The examples in subsection (2) are not intended to limit the 
generality of the language of subsection (1).
(4) Subject to subsection (5), for the purposes of this section, a thing 
done by, under, or for the purposes of, a carried over provision of 
the old corporations legislation of a State or Territory had an 
ongoing significance immediately before the commencement for 
the purposes of that legislation if:
(a) if the thing done was the making of an instrument or order—
the instrument or order was still in force immediately before 
the commencement; or
(b) if the thing done was the making of an application or claim—
the application or claim had not been decided, and had not 
otherwise ceased to have effect, before the commencement; 
or
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Chapter 10  Transitional provisions