Part 10.1  Transition from the old corporations legislation
Division 6  General transitional provisions relating to other things done etc. under the

old corporations legislation

Part 10.1  Transition from the old corporations legislation
Division 6  General transitional provisions relating to other things done etc. under the
Section 1401

Part 10.1  Transition from the old corporations legislation
Division 6  General transitional provisions relating to other things done etc. under the
292 Corporations Act 2001

Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025paragraph (2)(a) (as if that provision applied to the conduct or 
circumstances that gave rise to the pre-commencement right or 
liability).
Note: If a time limit applied in relation to the pre-commencement right or 
liability under the old corporations legislation, that same time limit 
(calculated from the same starting point) will apply under the new 
corporations legislation to the substituted right or liability—see 
subsection 1402(3).
(4) A procedure, proceeding or remedy in respect of the substituted 
right or liability may be instituted after the commencement under 
the provisions taken to be included in the new corporations 
legislation by subsection (2) (as if those provisions applied to the 
conduct or circumstances that gave rise to the pre-commencement 
right or liability).
Note: For pre-commencement proceedings in respect of substituted rights 
and liabilities, see sections 1383 and 1384.
(5) This section does not apply to a pre-commencement right or 
liability that:
(a) existed under a law of the Commonwealth or of a State or 
Territory; and
(b) would not have existed if any agreement that is valid only 
because of section 249 of the ASIC Act had been a valid 
agreement without the application of that section.
(6) Paragraph (1)(b) and subsection (5) have effect in relation to:
(a) proceedings (whether original or appellate) that begin on or 
after the day the Treasury Laws Amendment (2017 Measures 
No. 3) Act 2017 receives the Royal Assent; and
(b) proceedings that began before that day, if the proceedings 
(including any appeals) had not been finally determined as at 
that day.
(7) Nothing in paragraph (1)(b) or subsection (5) or (6) limits the 
operation of section 249 of the ASIC Act.
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Transitional provisions  Chapter 10
Transition from the old corporations legislation  Part 10.1
General transitional provisions relating to other things done etc. under the old 
corporations legislation  Division 6

Part 10.1  Transition from the old corporations legislation
Division 6  General transitional provisions relating to other things done etc. under the
Section 1402

Corporations Act 2001 293
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/20251402  Old corporations legislation time limits etc.
(1) An old corporations legislation time limit (see subsection (4)):
(a) the starting point of which:
(i) was known or had been determined before the 
commencement (whether that starting point occurred or 
would occur before, on or after the commencement); or
(ii) would have become known, or have been determined, 
after the commencement if the old corporations 
legislation of the relevant State or Territory had 
continued to apply (whether that starting point would 
have occurred before, on or after the commencement); 
and
(b) that had not ended at or before the commencement;
continues to run, or starts or started to run, as if that same time 
limit (starting from the same starting point) were applicable under 
the new corporations legislation.
(2) If:
(a) under the old corporations legislation, a process (for 
example, the winding up of a company), a status of a person 
or body (for example, a body’s registration as a company or a 
person’s status as a registered liquidator), or an instrument, 
commenced from a particular time before the 
commencement; and
(b) that process, status or instrument is continued after the 
commencement for the purposes of the new corporations 
legislation by a provision of this Part;
that process, status or instrument as so continued is still taken to 
have commenced from the time referred to in paragraph (a).
(3) If an old corporations legislation time limit related to a 
pre-commencement right or liability, the same time limit applies in 
relation to the substituted right or liability.
(4) In this section:
old corporations legislation time limit includes:
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Chapter 10  Transitional provisions

Part 10.1  Transition from the old corporations legislation
Division 6  General transitional provisions relating to other things done etc. under the

old corporations legislation

Part 10.1  Transition from the old corporations legislation
Division 6  General transitional provisions relating to other things done etc. under the
Section 1403

Part 10.1  Transition from the old corporations legislation
Division 6  General transitional provisions relating to other things done etc. under the
294 Corporations Act 2001

Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025(a) a period for the doing of a thing specified or determined 
under a provision of the old corporations legislation of a 
State or Territory; or
(b) a period specified or determined under a provision of the old 
corporations legislation of a State or Territory as the duration 
of a particular instrument or status.

Part 10.1  Transition from the old corporations legislation
Division 6  General transitional provisions relating to other things done etc. under the
1403  Preservation of significance etc. of events or circumstances

(1) An event, circumstance or other thing:
(a) that occurred or arose before the commencement under or as 
mentioned in a provision of the old corporations legislation 
of a State or Territory in this jurisdiction; and
(b) that had a particular significance, status or effect for the 
purposes of a carried over provision of that legislation 
(including because of an interpretive provision);
has that same significance, status and effect after the 
commencement for the purposes of the provision of the new 
corporations legislation that corresponds to that carried over 
provision.
Note: So, for example:
(a) if a company took action before the commencement that had the 
result for the purposes of section 200B of the old Corporations 
Law of making a superannuation fund a prescribed 
superannuation fund in relation to the company, that action has 
that same effect for the purposes of section 200B of this Act; and
(b) a delay that could have been taken into account for the purposes 
of subsection 874(1) of the old Corporations Law also counts for 
the purposes of subsection 874(1) of this Act.
(2) Without limiting subsection (1), an event, circumstance or other 
thing had a particular significance for the purposes of a carried 
over provision of the old corporations legislation of a State or 
Territory in this jurisdiction if:
(a) the carried over provision created an obligation in respect of 
the event, circumstance or thing (whenever it arose); or
(b) the carried over provision provided for the event, 
circumstance or thing to be dealt with in a particular way; or
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Transitional provisions  Chapter 10
Transition from the old corporations legislation  Part 10.1
General transitional provisions relating to other things done etc. under the old 
corporations legislation  Division 6

Part 10.1  Transition from the old corporations legislation
Division 6  General transitional provisions relating to other things done etc. under the
Section 1404

Corporations Act 2001 295
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025(c) the carried over provision stated that the event, circumstance 
or thing (whenever it arose) was to be disregarded for the 
purposes of that provision or was not covered by that 
provision.

Part 10.1  Transition from the old corporations legislation
Division 6  General transitional provisions relating to other things done etc. under the
1404  References in the new corporations legislation generally

include references to events, circumstances or things that 
happened or arose before the commencement
(1) Subject to this section, a reference in the new corporations 
legislation to an event, circumstance or thing of a particular kind 
that happens or arises, or that has happened or arisen, is taken to 
include a reference to an event, circumstance or thing of that kind 
that happened or arose at a time before the commencement, unless 
a contrary intention is expressed. The fact that the provision uses 
only the present tense in referring to an event, circumstance or 
thing is not, of itself, to be regarded as an expression of a contrary 
intention.
Note: So, for example, if a provision of the new corporations legislation 
refers to a person who consents to a course of action, that reference (in 
the absence of an express provision to the contrary) will not be limited 
to consents given after the commencement and will cover a consent 
given before the commencement.
(2) Nothing in subsection (1) is taken to produce a result that a right or 
liability exists under a provision of the new corporations legislation 
that relates solely to events, circumstances or things that occurred 
before the commencement.
Note: Instead, an equivalent right or liability will be created by section 1400 
or 1401.
(3) The regulations may provide that subsection (1) does not apply in 
relation to a particular reference or class of references in the new 
corporations legislation.
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Chapter 10  Transitional provisions