Part 5B.2  Registrable bodies
Division 2  Foreign companies
601CL  Cessation of business etc.

(1) Within 7 days after ceasing to carry on business in this jurisdiction, 
a registered foreign company must lodge written notice that it has 
so ceased.
(2) Where ASIC receives notice from a local agent of a registered 
foreign company that the foreign company has been dissolved or 
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Bodies corporate registered as companies, and registrable bodies  Chapter 5B
Registrable bodies  Part 5B.2
Foreign companies  Division 2

Part 5B.2  Registrable bodies
Division 2  Foreign companies
Section 601CL

Corporations Act 2001 39
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025deregistered, ASIC must remove the foreign company’s name from 
the register.
(3) Where ASIC has reasonable cause to believe that a registered 
foreign company does not carry on business in this jurisdiction, 
ASIC may send to the foreign company in the prescribed manner a 
letter to that effect and stating that, if no answer showing cause to 
the contrary is received within one month from the date of the 
letter, a notice will be published in the Gazette with a view to 
striking the foreign company’s name off the register.
(4) Unless ASIC receives, within one month after the date of the letter, 
an answer to the effect that the foreign company is still carrying on 
business in this jurisdiction, it may publish in the Gazette, and send 
to the foreign company in the prescribed manner, a notice that, at 
the end of 3 months after the date of the notice, the foreign 
company’s name will, unless cause to the contrary is shown, be 
struck off the register.
(5) At the end of the period specified in a notice sent under 
subsection (4), ASIC may, unless cause to the contrary has been 
shown, strike the foreign company’s name off the register and must 
publish in the Gazette notice of the striking off.
(6) Nothing in subsection (5) affects the power of the Court to wind up 
a foreign company whose name has been struck off the register.
(7) Where a foreign company’s name is struck off the register under 
subsection (5), the foreign company ceases to be registered under 
this Division.
(8) If ASIC is satisfied that a foreign company’s name was struck off 
the register as a result of an error on ASIC’s part, ASIC may 
restore the foreign company’s name to the register, and thereupon 
the foreign company’s name is taken never to have been struck off 
and the foreign company is taken never to have ceased to be 
registered under this Division.
(9) A person who is aggrieved by a foreign company’s name having 
been struck off the register may, within 15 years after the striking 
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Chapter 5B  Bodies corporate registered as companies, and registrable bodies

Part 5B.2  Registrable bodies
Division 2  Foreign companies
Section 601CL

Part 5B.2  Registrable bodies
Division 2  Foreign companies
40 Corporations Act 2001

Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025off, apply to the Court for the foreign company’s name to be 
restored to the register.
(10) If, on an application under subsection (9), the Court is satisfied 
that:
(a) at the time of the striking off, the foreign company was 
carrying on business in this jurisdiction; or
(b) it is otherwise just for the foreign company’s name to be 
restored to the register;
the Court may, by order:
(c) direct the foreign company’s name to be restored to the 
register; and
(d) give such directions, and make such provision, as it thinks 
just for placing the foreign company and all other persons in 
the same position, as nearly as practicable, as if the foreign 
company’s name had never been struck off.
(11) On the lodging of an office copy of an order under subsection (10), 
the foreign company’s name is taken never to have been struck off.
(12) Where a foreign company’s name is restored to the register under 
subsection (8) or (10), ASIC must cause notice of that fact to be 
published in the Gazette.
(13) Where a foreign company ceases to be registered under this 
Division, an obligation to lodge a document that this Act imposes 
on the foreign company by virtue of the doing of an act or thing, or 
the occurrence of an event, at or before the time when the foreign 
company so ceased, being an obligation not discharged at or before 
that time, continues to apply in relation to the foreign company 
even if the period prescribed for lodging the document has not 
ended at or before that time.
(14) Where a registered foreign company commences to be wound up, 
or is dissolved or deregistered, in its place of origin:
(a) each person who, on the day when the winding up 
proceedings began, was a local agent of the foreign company 
must, within the period of 1 month after that day or within 
that period as extended by ASIC in special circumstances, 
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Bodies corporate registered as companies, and registrable bodies  Chapter 5B
Registrable bodies  Part 5B.2
Foreign companies  Division 2
Section 601CLA
Corporations Act 2001 41
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025lodge or cause to be lodged notice of that fact and, when a 
liquidator is appointed, notice of the appointment; and
(b) the Court must, on application by the person who is the 
liquidator for the foreign company’s place of origin, or by 
ASIC, appoint a liquidator of the foreign company.
(15) A liquidator of a registered foreign company who is appointed by 
the Court:
(a) must, before any distribution of the foreign company’s 
property is made, by a notice published in accordance with 
subsection 601CLA(1), invite all creditors to make their 
claims against the foreign company within a reasonable time 
before the distribution; and
(b) must not, without obtaining an order of the Court, pay out a 
creditor of the foreign company to the exclusion of another 
creditor of the foreign company; and
(c) must, unless the Court otherwise orders, recover and realise 
the property of the foreign company in this jurisdiction and 
must pay the net amount so recovered and realised to the 
liquidator of the foreign company for its place of origin.
(16) Where a registered foreign company has been wound up so far as 
its property in this jurisdiction is concerned and there is no 
liquidator for its place of origin, the liquidator may apply to the 
Court for directions about the disposal of the net amount recovered 
under subsection (15).
601CLA  Publishing notices relating to cessation of business etc.
(1) A notice mentioned in paragraph 601CL(15)(a) is published in 
accordance with this subsection if it is published:
(a) unless paragraph (b) of this subsection applies—in a manner 
that results in the notice being accessible to the public and 
reasonably prominent; or
(b) if a determination under subsection (2) is in force:
(i) if the determination specifies one or more manners of 
publication under paragraph (2)(a)—in a manner 
specified in the determination; or
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Chapter 5B  Bodies corporate registered as companies, and registrable bodies

Part 5B.2  Registrable bodies
Division 2  Foreign companies
Section 601CM

Part 5B.2  Registrable bodies
Division 2  Foreign companies
42 Corporations Act 2001

Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025(ii) if the determination specifies that such a notice may be 
published in the prescribed manner—in the prescribed 
manner.
Note: For publication in the prescribed manner, see section 1367A.
(2) For the purposes of paragraph (1)(b), ASIC may, by legislative 
instrument, make a determination specifying:
(a) unless the matter in paragraph (b) of this subsection is 
specified—one or more manners in which a notice mentioned 
in paragraph 601CL(15)(a) may be published; or
(b) that such a notice may be published in the prescribed manner.
(3) A manner of publication may be specified in the determination 
under paragraph (2)(a) only if ASIC considers that the manner of 
publication would result in such a notice being accessible to the 
public and reasonably prominent.

Part 5B.2  Registrable bodies
Division 2  Foreign companies
601CM  Register of members of foreign company