Part 6.1  Prohibited acquisitions of relevant interests in voting shares
Section 609

Corporations Act 2001 191
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025Note: Subsections 609(6) and (7) deal with specific situations in which the 
agreement will not give rise to a relevant interest.
Body corporate may have relevant interest in its own securities
(9) This section may result in a body corporate having a relevant 
interest in its own securities.
Extension to interests in listed notified foreign passport funds
(10) To avoid doubt, for the purposes of Chapter 6C, a person has a 
relevant interest in securities if the person would have a relevant 
interest in the securities if securities had the same meaning in this 
Chapter as it has in Chapter 6C.

Part 6.1  Prohibited acquisitions of relevant interests in voting shares
609  Situations not giving rise to relevant interests

Money lending and financial accommodation
(1) A person does not have a relevant interest in securities merely 
because of a security interest taken or acquired by the person if:
(a) the security interest is taken or acquired:
(i) in the ordinary course of the person’s business of the 
provision of financial accommodation by any means 
and on ordinary commercial terms; or
(ii) for the benefit of one or more other persons in relation 
to financial accommodation provided by them in the 
ordinary course of their business of the provision of 
financial accommodation by any means and on ordinary 
commercial terms; and
(b) the person whose property is subject to the security interest is 
not an associate of any other person mentioned in this 
subsection.
In this subsection, a reference to a security interest includes a 
reference to a negative pledge.
Note: Sections 11 to 17 define associate.
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Chapter 6  Takeovers

Part 6.1  Prohibited acquisitions of relevant interests in voting shares

Part 6.1  Prohibited acquisitions of relevant interests in voting shares
Section 609

Part 6.1  Prohibited acquisitions of relevant interests in voting shares
192 Corporations Act 2001

Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025Nominees and other trustees
(2) A person who would otherwise have a relevant interest in securities 
as a bare trustee does not have a relevant interest in the securities if 
a beneficiary under the trust has a relevant interest in the securities 
because of a presently enforceable and unconditional right of the 
kind referred to in subsection 608(8).
Note: This subsection will often apply to a person who holds securities as a 
nominee.
Holding of securities by financial services licensee
(3) A financial services licensee does not have a relevant interest in 
securities merely because they hold securities on behalf of 
someone else in the ordinary course of their financial services 
business.
Disposal of securities by financial services licensees
(3A) A financial services licensee does not have a relevant interest in 
securities merely because, in the ordinary course of the licensee’s 
financial services business, a person specifically instructs the 
licensee to:
(a) dispose of the securities on behalf of the person; or
(b) enter into a position on behalf of the person under which the 
licensee has an obligation to make delivery of the securities 
by dealing in:
(i) a warrant within the meaning of the regulations; or
(ii) a financial product that, but for the product not being 
transferable, would be a warrant within the meaning of 
the regulations.
Shares covered by buy-backs
(4) A person does not have a relevant interest in a company’s shares if 
the relevant interest would arise merely because the company has 
entered into an agreement to buy back the shares.
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Takeovers  Chapter 6
Prohibited acquisitions of relevant interests in voting shares  Part 6.1

Part 6.1  Prohibited acquisitions of relevant interests in voting shares
Section 609

Corporations Act 2001 193
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025Proxies
(5) A person does not have a relevant interest in securities merely 
because the person has been appointed to vote as a proxy or 
representative at a meeting of members, or of a class of members, 
of the company, body or managed investment scheme if:
(a) the appointment is for one meeting only; and
(b) neither the person nor any associate gives valuable 
consideration for the appointment.
Market traded options and derivatives
(6) A person does not have a relevant interest in securities merely 
because of:
(a) an market traded option over the securities; or
(b) a right to acquire the securities given by a derivative.
This subsection stops applying to the relevant interest when the 
obligation to make or take delivery of the securities arises.
Note: Without this subsection, subsection 608(8) would create a relevant 
interest from the option or contract.
Conditional agreements
(7) A person does not have a relevant interest in securities merely 
because of an agreement if the agreement:
(a) is conditional on:
(i) a resolution under item 7 in the table in section 611 
being passed; or
(ii) ASIC exempting the acquisition under the agreement 
from the provisions of this Chapter under section 655A; 
and
(b) does not confer any control over, or power to substantially 
influence, the exercise of a voting right attached to the 
securities; and
(c) does not restrict disposal of the securities for more than 3 
months from the date when the agreement is entered into.
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Chapter 6  Takeovers

Part 6.1  Prohibited acquisitions of relevant interests in voting shares

Part 6.1  Prohibited acquisitions of relevant interests in voting shares
Section 609

Part 6.1  Prohibited acquisitions of relevant interests in voting shares
194 Corporations Act 2001

Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025The person acquires a relevant interest in the securities when the 
condition referred to in paragraph (a) is satisfied.
Pre-emptive rights
(8) A member of a company, body or managed investment scheme 
does not have a relevant interest in securities of the company, body 
or scheme merely because the company’s, body’s or scheme’s 
constitution gives members pre-emptive rights on the transfer of 
the securities if all members have pre-emptive rights on the same 
terms.
Director of body corporate holding securities
(9) A person does not have a relevant interest in securities merely 
because:
(a) the person is a director of a body corporate; and
(b) the body corporate has a relevant interest in those securities.
Clearing and settlement facilities
(9A) The operator of a clearing and settlement facility does not have a 
relevant interest in securities merely because of its provision of 
facilities for the settlement of transactions.
Securities escrowed under listing rules
(9B) A listed company does not have a relevant interest in securities 
merely because:
(a) those securities are restricted securities within the meaning of 
the listing rules of a declared financial market; and
(b) the company applies restrictions, in accordance with those 
rules, on the disposal of the securities by their holder.
(9C) The operator of a declared financial market does not have a 
relevant interest in securities merely because:
(a) those securities are restricted securities within the meaning of 
the listing rules of that market; and
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Takeovers  Chapter 6
Prohibited acquisitions of relevant interests in voting shares  Part 6.1

Part 6.1  Prohibited acquisitions of relevant interests in voting shares
Section 609A

Corporations Act 2001 195
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025(b) the operator has the power under those rules to control the 
exercise of a power to dispose of the securities.
Prescribed exclusions
(10) A person does not have a relevant interest in securities in the 
circumstances specified in the regulations. The regulations may 
provide that interests in securities are not relevant interests subject 
to specified conditions.

Part 6.1  Prohibited acquisitions of relevant interests in voting shares
609A  Another situation not giving rise to relevant interests—