Part 7.7 when providing financial advice. ASIC has a power under

section 915C to suspend or cancel a licensee’s licence.
(9) In calculating the amount payable, or paid, for securities for the 
purposes of paragraph (8)(a) or (b), disregard any amount payable, 
or paid, to the extent to which it is to be paid, or was paid, out of 
money lent by the person offering the securities or an associate.
(9A) In addition to specifying amounts for the purposes of 
subparagraphs (8)(c)(i) and (ii), the regulations may do either or 
both of the following:
(a) deal with how net assets referred to in subparagraph (8)(c)(i) 
are to be determined and valued, either generally or in 
specified circumstances;
(b) deal with how gross income referred to in 
subparagraph (8)(c)(ii) is to be calculated, either generally or 
in specified circumstances.
(9B) In determining the net assets of a person under 
subparagraph (8)(c)(i), the net assets of a company or trust 
controlled by the person may be included.
Note:Control is defined in section 50AA.
(9C) In determining the gross income of a person under 
subparagraph (8)(c)(ii), the gross income of a company or trust 
controlled by the person may be included.
Note:Control is defined in section 50AA.
(10) An offer of a body’s securities does not need disclosure to 
investors under this Part if:
(a) the offer is made through a financial services licensee; and
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Fundraising  Chapter 6D
Disclosure to investors about securities (other than for CSF offers)  Part 6D.2
Offers that need disclosure to investors  Division 2

Part 7.7 when providing financial advice. ASIC has a power under
Section 708

Corporations Act 2001 385
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025(b) the licensee is satisfied on reasonable grounds that the person 
to whom the offer is made has previous experience in 
investing in securities that allows them to assess:
(i) the merits of the offer; and
(ii) the value of the securities; and
(iii) the risks involved in accepting the offer; and
(iv) their own information needs; and
(v) the adequacy of the information given by the person 
making the offer; and
(c) the licensee gives the person before, or at the time when, the 
offer is made a written statement of the licensee’s reasons for 
being satisfied as to those matters; and
(d) the person to whom the offer is made signs a written 
acknowledgment before, or at the time when, the offer is 
made that the licensee has not given the person a disclosure 
document under this Part in relation to the offer.
Professional investors
(11) An offer of securities does not need disclosure to investors under 
this Part if it is made to:
(a) a person covered by the definition of professional investor in 
section 9 (except a person mentioned in paragraph (e) of the 
definition); or
(b) a person who has or controls gross assets of at least $10 
million (including any assets held by an associate or under a 
trust that the person manages).
Offers of securities to people associated with the body
(12) An offer of a body’s securities does not need disclosure to 
investors under this Part if it is made to:
(a) a senior manager of the body or a related body or their 
spouse, parent, child, brother or sister; or
(b) a body corporate controlled by a person referred to in 
paragraph (a).
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Chapter 6D  Fundraising