Part 5  Disclosure of the proposed demutualisation

Clause 30

Part 5  Disclosure of the proposed demutualisation
196 Corporations Act 2001

Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025(iii) complies with subclauses 33(2) and (3).
(5) If the company contravenes subclause (1) it is not guilty of an 
offence.
(6) A person contravenes this subclause if they are involved in a 
contravention of subclause (1).
Note 1: This subclause is a civil penalty provision.
Note 2: Section 79 defines involved.
(7) A person commits an offence if they are involved in a 
contravention of subclause (1) and the involvement is dishonest.
Penalty:
(a) for an individual—5 years imprisonment, 2,000 penalty units, 
or both; and
(b) for a body corporate—20,000 penalty units.
(8) In this clause:
reserves includes general reserves and retained earnings of the 
company.
unlisted company means a company (registered under clause 3) 
that does not have voting shares quoted on a declared financial 
market.

Part 5  Disclosure of the proposed demutualisation
30  ASIC’s exemption power

(1) If ASIC is satisfied that a company is not a mutual entity, it may 
exempt the company from this Part.
(6) The exemption must be in writing and ASIC must publish notice of 
it in the Gazette.

Part 5  Disclosure of the proposed demutualisation
31  Coverage of disclosure statement

The disclosure statement must give all the information that 
members would reasonably require and expect to be given to make 
an informed decision about the proposed modification.
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Transfer of financial institutions and friendly societies  Schedule 4
Disclosure of the proposed demutualisation  Part 5
  
Clause 32
Corporations Act 2001 197
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/202532  Registration of disclosure statement
(1) ASIC must register the disclosure statement if satisfied that the 
statement adequately sets out or explains the following (if 
relevant):
(a) the variation or cancellation of members’ rights;
(b) that the proposed modification will allow the variation or 
cancellation of members’ rights;
(d) what financial benefits (if any) members will be offered if the 
proposed modification occurs and why the benefits are 
considered to be appropriate;
(e) the basis upon which members’ entitlement to the financial 
benefits will be determined, including:
(i) any minimum period of membership that a member 
must satisfy to receive benefits; or
(ii) whether members must pay an amount or provide other 
value to receive benefits;
(f) any preferential allocation of benefits to members, or a class 
of members, and how that allocation is to be determined;
(g) any benefits officers of the company (including retiring 
officers) may receive (whether directly or indirectly) in 
connection with the proposed modification;
(h) any other proposed changes to the company that are related 
to the proposed modification (for example, whether the 
company proposes to list its securities for quotation on a 
declared financial market or merge with another company);
(i) the new name of the company, if the company’s name is to 
be changed in connection with the proposed modification, or 
that it is not proposed to change the company’s name;
(j) the procedural steps required to vary or cancel the members’ 
rights;
(l) how voting on the proposed modification will take place.
(2) In deciding whether the disclosure statement adequately sets out or 
explains the matters in subclause (1), ASIC may also have regard 
to:
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Schedule 4  Transfer of financial institutions and friendly societies

Part 5  Disclosure of the proposed demutualisation

Clause 33

Part 5  Disclosure of the proposed demutualisation
198 Corporations Act 2001

Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025(a) the readability of the statement; and
(b) whether the statement would be readily comprehensible by 
the members of the company concerned.
(3) The disclosure statement must include a statement to the effect that 
registration of the disclosure statement:
(a) is on the basis that the statement adequately sets out or 
explains the matters in subclause (1); and
(b) does not mean that ASIC has considered whether the 
proposed modification is in the best interests of the members 
of the company as a whole.
(4) Subclause (1) does not limit clause 31.

Part 5  Disclosure of the proposed demutualisation
33  Expert’s report

(1) If the company obtains 2 or more reports each of which could be 
used for the purposes of paragraph 29(4)(c), a copy of each report 
must:
(a) be lodged with ASIC; and
(b) be given to each member entitled to receive a disclosure 
statement.
Penalty: 6 months imprisonment.
(2) The report must be by an expert who is not an associate of the 
company.
(3) The report must set out details of:
(a) any relationship between the expert and the company, 
including any circumstances in which the expert gives it 
advice, or acts on its behalf, in the proper performance of the 
functions attaching to the expert’s professional capacity or 
business relationship with the company; and
(b) any financial or other interest of the expert that could 
reasonably be regarded as being capable of affecting the 
expert’s ability to give an unbiased opinion; and
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Transfer of financial institutions and friendly societies  Schedule 4
Disclosure of the proposed demutualisation  Part 5
  
Clause 34
Corporations Act 2001 199
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025(c) any fee, payment or other benefit (whether direct or indirect) 
that the expert has received or will or may receive in 
connection with making the report.

Part 5  Disclosure of the proposed demutualisation
34  Unconscionable conduct in relation to demutualisations

(1) A person must not engage in:
(a) conduct that is, in all the circumstances, unconscionable; or
(b) conduct that is misleading or deceptive or is likely to mislead 
or deceive;
in relation to:
(c) a modification of the constitution of an unlisted company that 
is a modification to which this Part applies; or
(d) anything done in reliance on, in conjunction with or in 
connection with the modification.
(2) In determining whether a person has engaged in conduct that 
contravenes paragraph (1)(a), have regard to:
(a) whether the person, or someone acting for the person, exerted 
undue influence or pressure on, or used unfair tactics against, 
members of the company; and
(b) whether the person, or someone acting for the person, 
engaged in conduct that resulted in a member or someone 
else gaining, or being in a position to gain, a benefit that the 
members generally did not, or would not be in a position to, 
gain.
This subclause does not limit subclause (1).
(3) A person who contravenes subclause (1) is not guilty of an offence.

Part 5  Disclosure of the proposed demutualisation
35  Orders the Court may make

(1) Without limiting the Court’s powers under Part 9.5, if the Court is 
satisfied that a person has engaged in conduct constituting a 
contravention of subclause 34(1), the Court may make 1 or more of 
the following orders:
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Schedule 4  Transfer of financial institutions and friendly societies

Part 5  Disclosure of the proposed demutualisation

Clause 35

Part 5  Disclosure of the proposed demutualisation
200 Corporations Act 2001