Part 1—Preliminary

Part 1—Preliminary
1  Definitions

In this Schedule, except so far as the contrary intention appears:
AFIC Code of a State or Territory means the Australian Financial 
Institutions Commission Code as set out in the Australian 
Financial Institutions Commission Act 1992 of Queensland as in 
force immediately before the transfer date and as applied as a law 
of the State or Territory.
building society of a State or Territory means a transferring 
financial institution authorised under the Financial Institutions 
Code of the State or Territory to operate as a building society 
immediately before the transfer date.
Financial Institutions Code of a State or Territory means the 
Financial Institutions Code set out in the Financial Institutions 
(Queensland) Act 1992 as in force immediately before the transfer 
date and as applied as a law of the State or Territory.
Friendly Societies Code means the Friendly Societies Code set out 
in Schedule 1 to the Friendly Societies (Victoria) Act 1996 as in 
force immediately before the transfer date.
Friendly Societies Code of a State or Territory means:
(a) the Friendly Societies Code as applied as a law of the State or 
Territory; or
(b) if the State is Western Australia—the Friendly Societies 
(Western Australia) Code set out in the Friendly Societies 
(Western Australia) Act 1999.
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Transfer of financial institutions and friendly societies  Schedule 4
Preliminary  Part 1
  
Clause 1
Corporations Act 2001 177
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025member of a transferring financial institution means a person 
who, immediately before the transfer date, is a member of the 
institution under:
(a) the previous governing Code; or
(b) the rules of the institution.
membership share means a share in a company that was a 
transferring financial institution:
(a) that was taken to have been issued under clause 12 of the 
transfer provisions; and
(b) that carries the rights and obligations that were conferred or 
imposed on the person in a capacity other than that of 
shareholder, by:
(i) the institution’s rules (as in force immediately before 
the transfer date); and
(ii) the previous governing Code; and
(c) on which no amount is paid; and
(d) on which no amount is unpaid; and
(e) that is not:
(i) transferable or transmissible; or
(ii) capable of devolution by will or by operation of law; 
and
(f) that can be cancelled as set out in subclause 12(3).
previous governing Code for a transferring financial institution 
means the Code or law under which the institution is registered 
immediately before the transfer date.
State Supervisory Authority (SSA) for a transferring financial 
institution means:
(a) the SSA for the institution within the meaning of the previous 
governing Code; or
(b) in the case of The Cairns Cooperative Weekly Penny Savings 
Bank Limited—the Queensland Office of Financial 
Supervision.
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Schedule 4  Transfer of financial institutions and friendly societies