Part 8B.6  External administration and deregistration
Division 9  Deregistration and transfer of registration
Section 1239

Part 8B.6  External administration and deregistration
Division 9  Deregistration and transfer of registration
658 Corporations Act 2001

Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025(a) ASIC decides to deregister the sub-fund under this section; 
and
(b) ASIC is not aware of any failure to comply with 
subsections (1) to (4);
ASIC must:
(c) give notice of the proposed deregistration on ASIC database; 
and
(d) publish notice of the proposed deregistration in the 
prescribed manner.
(6) When 2 months have passed since the publication of the notice 
under paragraph (5)(d), ASIC may deregister the sub-fund.
(7) ASIC must give notice of the deregistration to:
(a) the applicant; or
(b) the person nominated in the application to be given the 
notice.
Notices taken to have been given under section 601AA
(8) For the purposes of the provisions of this Act (other than a 
provision of this Chapter):
(a) a notice given under paragraph (5)(c) is taken to have been 
given under paragraph 601AA(4)(c); and
(b) a notice published under paragraph (5)(d) is taken to have 
been published under subsection 601AA(4)(d).
ASIC must not deregister a sub-fund that is an Australian passport 
fund if the fund has certain members
(9) However, ASIC must not decide, under this section, to deregister a 
sub-fund that is an Australian passport fund if:
(a) there are members of the fund who became members 
(whether in this jurisdiction or any host economy for the 
fund) after the fund became an Australian passport fund; or
(b) there are members of the fund who became members 
(whether in this jurisdiction or any host economy for the 
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Corporate collective investment vehicles  Chapter 8B
External administration and deregistration  Part 8B.6
Deregistration and transfer of registration  Division 9

Part 8B.6  External administration and deregistration
Division 9  Deregistration and transfer of registration
Section 1239A

Corporations Act 2001 659
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025fund) on the expectation that the fund would become an 
Australian passport fund.
(10) For the purposes of subsection (9), ignore any member of the fund 
that:
(a) is, or has at any time been, the operator of the fund; or
(b) is a related party of an entity that is, or has at any time been, 
the operator of the fund.
Note: See section 1216B for the circumstances in which a person becomes a 
member of a fund on the expectation that it would become an 
Australian passport fund.

Part 8B.6  External administration and deregistration
Division 9  Deregistration and transfer of registration
1239A  Deregistration of a sub-fund—ASIC initiated

Circumstances in which ASIC may deregister
(1) ASIC may decide to deregister a sub-fund of a CCIV if:
(a) the CCIV has not lodged any documents that relate to the 
sub-fund under this Act in the last 18 months; and
(b) ASIC has no reason to believe that the part of the business of 
the CCIV that is registered as the sub-fund is being carried 
on.
(2) ASIC may also decide to deregister a sub-fund of a CCIV if:
(a) the CCIV’s review fee in respect of a review date has not 
been paid in full at least 12 months after the due date for 
payment; and
(b) the review fee is to any extent a liability of the sub-fund.
(3) ASIC may also decide to deregister a sub-fund of a CCIV if the 
sub-fund is being wound up and ASIC has reason to believe that:
(a) the liquidator of the sub-fund is no longer acting; or
(b) the sub-fund’s affairs have been fully wound up and a return 
that the liquidator should have lodged is at least 6 months 
late; or
(c) the sub-fund’s affairs have been fully wound up under

Part 8B.6  External administration and deregistration
Division 9  Deregistration and transfer of registration
Section 1239A

Part 8B.6  External administration and deregistration
Division 9  Deregistration and transfer of registration
660 Corporations Act 2001

Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025sub-fund are not enough to cover the costs of obtaining a 
Court order for the sub-fund’s deregistration.
(4) However, ASIC must not decide, under this section, to deregister a 
sub-fund that is an Australian passport fund if ASIC is of the 
opinion that to do so would not be in the interests of:
(a) members of the fund who became members (whether in this 
jurisdiction or any host economy for the fund) after the fund 
became an Australian passport fund; and
(b) members of the fund who became members (whether in this 
jurisdiction or any host economy for the fund) on the 
expectation that the fund would become an Australian 
passport fund.
(5) For the purposes of subsection (4), ignore any member of the fund 
that:
(a) is, or has at any time been, the operator of the fund; or
(b) is a related party of an entity that is, or has at any time been, 
the operator of the fund.
Note: See section 1216B for the circumstances in which a person becomes a 
member of a fund on the expectation that it would become an 
Australian passport fund.
Show cause notice
(6) Before deciding to deregister a sub-fund, ASIC must give the 
CCIV a written notice that requires the CCIV to show cause, at a 
hearing before a specified person, why the sub-fund should not be 
deregistered.
(7) The notice must specify:
(a) the grounds on which it is proposed to deregister the 
sub-fund; and
(b) a reasonable time and place at which the hearing is to be 
held.
However, if the CCIV consents, the person conducting the hearing 
may fix a different time or place.
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Corporate collective investment vehicles  Chapter 8B
External administration and deregistration  Part 8B.6
Deregistration and transfer of registration  Division 9

Part 8B.6  External administration and deregistration
Division 9  Deregistration and transfer of registration
Section 1239B

Corporations Act 2001 661
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025(8) The person conducting the hearing must:
(a) give the CCIV an opportunity to be heard at the hearing; and
(b) give ASIC:
(i) a report about the hearing; and
(ii) a recommendation about the grounds in the notice on 
which it is proposed to deregister the sub-fund.
(9) After considering the report and recommendation, ASIC may 
decide to:
(a) take no further action in relation to the matter and give 
written advice of that decision to the CCIV; or
(b) deregister the sub-fund.
(10) Neither of the following is a legislative instrument:
(a) a notice under subsection (6);
(b) a report under subsection (8) (if it is in writing).

Part 8B.6  External administration and deregistration
Division 9  Deregistration and transfer of registration
1239B  Process for ASIC initiated deregistration of a sub-fund

(1) If ASIC decides under section 1239A to deregister a sub-fund of a 
CCIV, it must:
(a) give notice setting out the date on which ASIC proposes to 
deregister the sub-fund:
(i) to the CCIV; and
(ii) to the liquidator of the sub-fund (if any); and
(iii) to the corporate director; and
(iv) on the ASIC database; and
(b) publish notice of the date on which ASIC proposes to 
deregister the sub-fund in the prescribed manner.
(2) A notice under paragraph (1)(a) must be given at least 5 business 
days before the sub-fund is deregistered.
(3) ASIC may deregister the sub-fund if:
(a) 5 business days have passed since the publication of the 
notice under paragraph (1)(b); and
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Chapter 8B  Corporate collective investment vehicles

Part 8B.6  External administration and deregistration
Division 9  Deregistration and transfer of registration
Section 1239C

Part 8B.6  External administration and deregistration
Division 9  Deregistration and transfer of registration
662 Corporations Act 2001

Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025(b) at the time ASIC deregisters the sub-fund, ASIC has reason 
to believe that there is no property of the CCIV to which 
section 1233K (about property that has to be converted) 
applies.
(4) ASIC does not have to give a person notice under paragraph (1)(a) 
if ASIC does not have the necessary information about the person’s 
identity or address.
(5) If ASIC deregisters a sub-fund of a CCIV under this section, ASIC 
must give notice that the fund has been deregistered, and the date 
on which it has been deregistered, to everyone who was notified of 
the proposed deregistration under subparagraph (1)(a)(ii) or (iii).
(6) The notice must be given within 5 business days after the sub-fund 
is deregistered.
Notices taken to have been given under section 601AB
(7) For the purposes of the provisions of this Act (other than a 
provision of this Chapter):
(a) a notice given under paragraph (1)(a) is taken to have been 
given under paragraph 601AB(3)(a); and
(b) a notice published under paragraph (1)(b) is taken to have 
been published under subsection 601AB(3)(b).

Part 8B.6  External administration and deregistration
Division 9  Deregistration and transfer of registration
1239C  Deregistration of a sub-fund—following amalgamation or