Part 7.9  Financial product disclosure and other provisions relating to issue, sale and
Division 2  Product Disclosure Statements
Section 1016F

Part 7.9  Financial product disclosure and other provisions relating to issue, sale and
Division 2  Product Disclosure Statements
80 Corporations Act 2001

Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025take a financial product as an underwriter is taken to have applied 
for that financial product.
(4) For the purposes of paragraphs (1)(a) and (b), the relevant date in 
relation to an express or implied statement is:
(a) if the statement is express or implied in a Product Disclosure 
Statement, disregarding the effect of section 1014D—the 
date of the Product Disclosure Statement; or
(b) if the statement is express or implied in a Supplementary 
Product Disclosure Statement—the date of the 
Supplementary Product Disclosure Statement; or
(c) if the statement is express or implied in a Replacement 
Product Disclosure Statement (whether or not it is express or 
implied in the earlier Product Disclosure Statement it 
replaces)—the date of the Replacement Product Disclosure 
Statement.
(5) For the purposes of this section, defective, when used in relation to 
a Product Disclosure Statement at a particular time, means that the 
Product Disclosure Statement, if it had been given to a person at 
that time, would have been defective as defined in Subdivision A 
of Division 7.
Note: Information in a Supplementary Product Disclosure Statement is taken 
to be contained in the Product Disclosure Statement it supplements 
(see section 1014D).

Part 7.9  Financial product disclosure and other provisions relating to issue, sale and
Division 2  Product Disclosure Statements
1016F  Remedies for person acquiring financial product under

defective Product Disclosure Document
(1) Subject to this section, if a financial product is issued or sold to a 
person (the client) in contravention of section 1016E, the client has 
the right to return the product and to have the money they paid to 
acquire the product repaid. This is so even if the responsible person 
is being wound up.
(2) If the responsible person:
(a) is a body corporate; and
(b) does not repay the money as required by subsection (1);
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Financial services and markets  Chapter 7
Financial product disclosure and other provisions relating to issue, sale and purchase of 
financial products  Part 7.9
Product Disclosure Statements  Division 2

Part 7.9  Financial product disclosure and other provisions relating to issue, sale and
Division 2  Product Disclosure Statements
Section 1016F

Corporations Act 2001 81
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025the directors of the responsible person are personally liable to 
repay the money.
(3) The right to return the product must be exercised by notifying the 
responsible person in one of the following ways:
(a) in writing; or
(b) electronically; or
(c) in any other way specified in the regulations.
Also, if the regulations require the client to comply with other 
requirements in order to exercise the right to return the product, 
those other requirements must be complied with.
(4) The right to return the product can only be exercised during the 
period of 1 month starting on the date of the issue or sale of the 
product to the client.
(5) On the exercise of the right to return the product:
(a) if the product is constituted by a legal relationship between 
the client and the issuer of the product—that relationship is, 
by force of this section, terminated with effect from that time 
without penalty to the client; and
(b) any contract for the acquisition of the product by the client is, 
by force of this section, terminated with effect from that time 
without penalty to the client.
(6) The regulations may provide for consequences and obligations (in 
addition to those provided for by subsection (5)) to apply if the 
right to return a financial product is exercised.
(7) The regulations may do any or all of the following:
(a) provide that a specified subclass of financial products that 
would otherwise be covered by this section is excluded from 
this section;
(b) provide additional requirements to be satisfied before this 
section applies in relation to a class or subclass of financial 
products;
(c) provide that this section does not apply in relation to the 
provision of a financial product in specified circumstances.
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Chapter 7  Financial services and markets