Part 8B.3  Corporate governance of CCIVs
Division 7  Corporate contraventions
Subdivision C—Consequences of contraventions of State and

Territory laws

Part 8B.3  Corporate governance of CCIVs
Division 7  Corporate contraventions
Subdivision C—Consequences of contraventions of State and

1229F  Compensation orders—State and Territory laws

Compensation for penalties incurred etc.
(1) A Court may on application under subsection (5) order a person to 
compensate a CCIV for loss or damage suffered by the CCIV if:
(a) the CCIV contravened, or allegedly contravened, a provision 
covered by subsection (2); and
(b) the loss or damage is:
(i) a pecuniary penalty to which the CCIV is liable in 
respect of the contravention or alleged contravention; or
(ii) an amount paid by the CCIV in settlement of 
proceedings in respect of the contravention or alleged 
contravention; and
(c) the person was the corporate director of the CCIV at the time 
of the contravention or alleged contravention; and
(d) the exception in subsection (3) does not apply.
The order must specify the amount of the compensation.
State and Territory offences and civil penalty provisions
(2) A provision of a law of a State or Territory is covered by this 
subsection if a contravention of the provision is an offence, or 
subject to a civil penalty.
Exception where liquidator etc. acting
(3) Subsection (1) does not apply if the conduct constituting the 
contravention or alleged contravention was engaged in solely as a 
result of an exercise of powers by:
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Corporate collective investment vehicles  Chapter 8B
Corporate governance of CCIVs  Part 8B.3
Corporate contraventions  Division 7

Part 8B.3  Corporate governance of CCIVs
Division 7  Corporate contraventions
Subdivision C—Consequences of contraventions of State and

Section 1229G

Corporations Act 2001 559
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025(a) a liquidator or provisional liquidator of a sub-fund of the 
CCIV; or
(b) a receiver, or receiver and manager, of the property of a 
sub-fund of the CCIV; or
(c) a trustee or other person administering a compromise or 
arrangement made between the CCIV and someone else.
Recovery of damage
(4) A compensation order may be enforced as if it were a judgment of 
the Court.
Who may apply
(5) An application for a compensation order under this section may be 
made by any of the following:
(a) ASIC;
(b) a member of the CCIV;
(c) the CCIV.
Other laws not affected
(6) This section does not affect any liability that a person has under 
any other law.

Part 8B.3  Corporate governance of CCIVs
Division 7  Corporate contraventions
Subdivision C—Consequences of contraventions of State and

1229G  Time limit for application for compensation order

Proceedings for a compensation order may be started not later than:
(a) for a proven contravention—6 years after the contravention 
was proved; or
(b) for an unproven contravention—6 years after the 
contravention or alleged contravention.

Part 8B.3  Corporate governance of CCIVs
Division 7  Corporate contraventions
Subdivision C—Consequences of contraventions of State and

1229H  Civil evidence and procedure rules for compensation orders

The Court must apply the rules of evidence and procedure for civil 
matters when hearing proceedings for a compensation order.
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Chapter 8B  Corporate collective investment vehicles