Part 8B.9  Subordinate legislation relating to CCIVs

Part 8B.9  Subordinate legislation relating to CCIVs
Section 1243

Part 8B.9  Subordinate legislation relating to CCIVs
696 Corporations Act 2001

Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025(i) a specified CCIV, a specified class of CCIVs or all 
CCIVs; or
(ii) a specified class of sub-funds of CCIVs, all sub-funds of 
a specified class of CCIVs, or all sub-funds of all 
CCIVs; or
(iii) a specified entity, a specified class of entities or all 
entities, in relation to a specified CCIV, a specified 
class of CCIVs or all CCIVs; or
(iv) a specified entity, a specified class of entities or all 
entities, in relation to a specified class of sub-funds of 
CCIVs, all sub-funds of a specified class of CCIVs, or 
all sub-funds of all CCIVs;
as if specified provisions were omitted, modified or varied as 
specified in the declaration.
(3) The exemption or declaration may:
(a) relate to a specified security, a specified class of securities or 
all securities; and
(b) relate to any other matter generally or as specified.
(4) An exemption may apply unconditionally or subject to specified 
conditions. A person to whom a condition specified in an 
exemption applies must comply with the condition. The Court may 
order the person to comply with the condition in a specified way. 
Only ASIC may apply to the Court for the order.
Exemptions and declarations relating to all or a class of persons
(5) An exemption or declaration must be made by legislative 
instrument if it relates to:
(a) all CCIVs, a specified class of CCIVs, or 2 or more specified 
CCIVs; or
(b) all sub-funds of all CCIVs, all sub-funds of a specified class 
of CCIVs, or a specified class of sub-funds of CCIVs; or
(c) all entities, a specified class of entities, or 2 or more specified 
entities.
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025Corporate collective investment vehicles  Chapter 8B
Subordinate legislation relating to CCIVs  Part 8B.9

Part 8B.9  Subordinate legislation relating to CCIVs
Section 1243A

Corporations Act 2001 697
Compilation No. 143 Compilation date: 09/07/2025Exemptions and declarations relating to specified persons
(6) Subject to subsection (5), an exemption or declaration must be 
made by notifiable instrument if it relates to a specified CCIV or 
specified entity.
(7) An exemption or declaration that relates to a specified CCIV may 
apply to the CCIV in respect of a specified sub-fund, a specified 
class of sub-funds or all sub-funds of the CCIV.
(8) An exemption or declaration that relates to a specified entity may 
apply to the entity in respect of a specified sub-fund, a specified 
class of sub-funds or all sub-funds of a specified CCIV.
(9) ASIC must also give a copy of an exemption or declaration that 
relates to a specified CCIV or a specified entity to the CCIV or 
entity. ASIC must do so as soon as is reasonably practicable after 
the exemption or declaration is made.

Part 8B.9  Subordinate legislation relating to CCIVs
1243A  Modification by regulations

(1) The regulations may modify the operation of this Chapter or any 
other provisions of this Act in relation to:
(a) a specified CCIV; or
(b) a specified class of CCIVs; or
(c) all CCIVs; or
(d) a specified class of sub-funds of CCIVs; or
(e) all sub-funds of a specified class of CCIVs; or
(f) all sub-funds of all CCIVs.
(2) Regulations made for the purposes of subsection (1) in relation to a 
specified CCIV may apply to the CCIV in respect of a specified 
sub-fund, a specified class of sub-funds or all sub-funds of the 
CCIV.
Authorised Version C2025C00450 registered 21/07/2025